---
layout: post
author: hdubbe
title: "Hannah's Final Project and Reflection"
---
Final Project Trinket:
<iframe src="https://trinket.io/embed/python/76074f97c7" width="100%" height="600" frameborder="0" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Final Reflection:
Wow, this final project has been a journey. I chose to make a Turtle Game where the player has to bake and decorate a series of cakes in order to win the game. When we had to make our first project plans in early November, I was definitely more ambitious about what I could reasonably make within a few weeks. Ultimately, I am still quite proud of what I ended up with, but it is not very similar to my first plan. I originally wanted the player of my game to have to mix and measure ingredients, bake the cake in an oven for a certain amount of time, and then decorate the cake. That obviously did not come to fruition, but it was fun to dream big. I always figured I would have to scale back my initial design, so I am not disappointed with what ended up as my final project. 
The major legwork of my project was done in the last week for sure. During the first couple of weeks that we had to work on the game design, I mostly was trying to figure out how to make ondrag and onclick work within python, as well as design cakes and decorations that could be clickable. During the last week and a half, I really got down to business. Taking a second look at the project requirements made me realize I actually still had a ton of work to do in order to make a final project that satisfied everything in the assignment posting. I encountered a lot of challenges along the way toward the completion of this assignment.
The first thing that gave me a headache was trying to make the ondrag function work the way that I wanted it to. Even though I only wanted to drag one object at a time, every single item dragged at the same time which defeated the purpose of the game. I labored over this issue for quite a while. I eventually talked to Dr. Hauser about it, and it turns out that ondrag doesn’t work entirely correctly in the basic free version of Trinket, so I needed to come up with a work around. What I ended up doing was just have one ondrag object that resets itself over and over per level. This way I could drag multiple decorations onto the cake without having to drag them all at once like what was happening before. It felt good to come up with a solution that I was happy with. I like the way that players have to interact with my levels, even if they cannot drag multiple objects at once. It was a good learning experience.
After I sorted out that issue, I started to have a lot of anxiety about completing my game with all the requirements in a week and a half. To be honest, I lost sleep over this project and had nightmares about code (lol). I am, by nature, a nervous person, but this project caused me more stress than anything else I have encountered in my year and a half at the iSchool. Ultimately it is okay, because it helped me relearn coping mechanisms to deal with stressful projects. When I couldn’t look at my computer screen anymore, I got up and took long walks around my neighborhood. I employed deep breathing and stretching exercises when I was feeling tense. Encountering difficult projects like this is a part of life and forces one to find new ways to manage stress. This whole experience was very stressful, but ultimately rewarding.
I think that a big thing that caused me stress with this project was that there were not a lot of reference tools specifically for making turtle games. There was Runestone documentation about the nature of turtles, as well as Dr Hauser’s video series on game building, but I still felt at a loss for tools to help me through making the game. There were a lot of things that I flat out just did not know how to do and that stressed me out a great deal. I am not used to just not knowing how to do things and not knowing where to turn for help. For example, making new levels with increasing difficulty was something that vexed me for a long time during this project. I just sat and stared at my code without knowing what to do with it. I am not good at sitting and thinking. I am a doer and I want things to be done as quickly and efficiently as possible. I had to get over that during this project. I had to get comfortable with just staring at my screen and thinking. I spent a long time laboring over how to make new levels within my game world. I eventually came up with a workable solution, but if I was to do the project again, I would probably try something new in order to create a game with increasing levels of difficulty. The reset solution that I came up with for each level seems a little fragile.
My game definitely still has some bugs. There is this weird arrow in the middle of the screen that I cannot, for the life of me, figure out how to get rid of. I guess it’s a turtle that I neglected to hide, but where is that turtle?! I can’t find it! It is driving me nuts! It doesn’t hinder the gameplay but it makes the game interface look weird and I do not like that. I am writing this reflection the night before the project is due so maybe I will figure out what is going on there, but until then it will continue to haunt my dreams. 
Another bug that I couldn’t not figure out how to get rid of is how to make the turtle stop baking layers of cake. I tried the turtle.done() option in as many ways as I could but for some reason the cake still bakes over and over again. The turtle either bakes the cake infinite times or never bakes it at all. I can’t find the middle ground. I read the turtle documentation provided on Runestone as many times as I could, but I still couldn’t make it work for me. Maybe in the future, when I am a better programmer, I will figure out what switch I didn’t flick - so to speak.  It is a bug and if I had more time to work on this project, I would figure that out.
As I am writing this I feel pretty brain dead. This project has drained me. I spent all day working out bugs in my project, so this reflection might not be the most eloquent thing I have ever written. It is honest though. I also want to give a shoutout to Dr. Hauser for sitting patiently with me through many office hour sessions. My game would have come as far as it has without his help and guidance. Thanks, Dr. Hauser!
As someone who just completed her first involved python programming project, I feel mentally weak. I ran a marathon a couple of years ago and my brain feels the way that my body did after I finished that. Emotionally I feel pretty similar too. I feel like I pushed myself and my programming capabilities farther than I thought they could go in one semester of an introduction course. I am proud of myself and I am proud of my work. I definitely wish that some things in the game ran more smoothly, or with less fragility. Still, I am happy with what I cranked out in a few short weeks - especially weeks that had a major holiday in the middle of them. I worked really hard to complete this project. I read a lot of turtle documentation, watched all of Dr. Hauser’s video lecture, and attended more office hours than I ever have for any one project before. It was a challenging and rewarding experience. I definitely did not think it would be as hard as it ended up being but that’s okay. It’s almost over now and I have a lot of good experience under my belt.
In conclusion, this project made me feel A LOT of emotions. I felt anxious, frustrated, upset and ultimately quite proud of myself for what I ended up accomplishing. Before this project I never thought I could program a whole game. That’s nuts to me. Even though the program still has some bugs and I still don’t fully understand how to implement dictionaries by myself, I am still proud of myself and I definitely want to continue to learn about python and practice programming as I go forward. The projects are challenging but they are also rewarding, and I love those kinds of things. They make me feel powerful. This learning experience has been a big growing experience for me and I am excited to learn more about python and programming as I continue my education and professional career.
