---
layout: post
author: intjnotinfp
title: "intjnotinfp’s Cultural Immersion/ Meetup Writeup"
---

For my required meetup, I attended a virtual Data and Donuts presentation on data visualization on October 9th. It was the third of four parts of a workshop series put on through one of the UT Library’s departments. The presenter, Michael Shensky, mostly talked about Plotly and matplotlib, which are Python libraries that allow users to graph and group data sets. I had never heard of them, so I brought a beginner’s perspective and was able to follow along fairly well because he did such a good job of explaining what he was doing line-by-line. He explained that the reason he was showcasing those was because of their popularity, support for niche types of data, and the large ecosystem of open source packages.

Because it was conducted seminar-style on Zoom, I wasn’t able to see other participants or even how many attendees there were. Despite the slightly imposing format, Michael and the other presenter, Jessica Trelogan, did a wonderful job of making sure every question was answered along the way – both simple and complex ones. I think this added a lot of value to the participants but, speaking for myself, it kept me more engaged and made it feel less like a lecture and more like a genuine interaction. It still didn’t feel like it would showing up and meeting a group of people though. I think in the future I would much prefer being able to meet new people and chat individually rather than being locked into a screen. In an effort to participapte, I asked a question towards the end of the seminar using the chat function, but unfortunately because questions were pouring in, they didn’t catch it before the presentation ended. Michael mentioned a lot of libraries and programming tools that I hadn’t heard of at the time, such as Google Colab, Jupiter Notebook and Pandas. I thought the virtual meet up was a nice, low stakes way to explore the world of programming, how programmers interact and collaborate and what tools they use to accomplish specific tasks. I’m not sure if coding meetups would be my thing in the future, but I’m glad I got to give one a try and see what they’re all about. The coding community seems very supportive and welcoming from what I’ve seen.
