---
layout: post
author: AU-turtledragon
title: "Aaron Ulmer's Python Meetup Writeup"
---

### The Austin Python Meetup - November 10, 2021

   I attended the November 10 Austin Python Monthly Meetup over Zoom.  The meetup was scheduled for 3 hours, but I checked out around the two and a half hour mark as participants thinned out a bit and the conversation shifted to a few individuals talking about their professional work outside of Python which flew way over my head.  

   The Meetup consisted of a very brief welcome from the host, followed by two presentations, each with their own question and answer sessions. The first presenter, Meredydd Luff, presented his work with a project/company called Anvil.  If I understood it correctly, Anvil is a framework for presenting web page content using Python from start to finish on both the server side and the end user side - thereby eliminating the need to translate data from SQL to PHP, Java, HTML, etc.  It’s all Python… apparently.  This presentation went way into the weeds in a way that honestly kind of left me behind after awhile.  I understand the overall concept and why this assembly of Python enthusiasts seemed so excited about it, but it was difficult for me to fully appreciate the technical achievements at play here given my limited experience with Python thus far.  Nevertheless, I do have a general idea of the complications dealing with the modern web development stack and could appreciate the potential benefits of being able to deliver web content using one powerful yet user-friendly language.  The more vocal participants indeed seemed very enthusiastic about the whole thing, such that it seemed to me they’d really never seen anything quite like it.  

   After the Anvil presentation and Q & A session, the host Cheng Lee, a software engineer at Anaconda, presented an overview of new features in the Python 3.10 update.  This particular portion of the meetup was somewhat interesting as it offered a bit of an inside view in the organizational/decision-making structure that drives Python.  Likewise, Cheng brokedown the timeline for the development cycles of Python 3.7 through 3.12 and where Python 3.10 fits within that.  Much of what Cheng had to say about the specific features and improvements being implemented with the new update were again somewhat over my head.  But, since the focus was on the basics of Python itself rather than a particular advanced application of it, I found this presentation a bit easier to follow along with even as I scratched my head a bit over the details.  Of particular interest to a newbie like me were improvements being made in the specificity of error messages, making it easier to identify exactly what sort of syntax error has been made and where.  I also learned some new vocab like “syntactic sugar” and “structural pattern matching”.  Perhaps because Cheng Lee was the host of the meetup — and presumably often plays such a role in the group — I found him to be far more inclusive in his delivery of technical information than the far more advanced style of the first presenter.  Though I certainly didn’t understand half of the feature implementations he discussed in his presentation, I could tell that he at least made an effort to use language that a more novice audience could at least follow along with.  As such, I was indeed able to follow along regardless of how confused I was.  Whereas the the previous presentation left me somewhat glazed over after awhile and not sure how much longer I could hang. 

   Speaking of inclusivity - I found the group to all be fairly welcoming and friendly, though nearly all of the conversation took place amongst a core group who were all clearly very familiar with one another. I felt welcome, but also like I was crashing someone else's party. The vast majority of the rotating 30-35 participants I observed were male, as our readings from last week had somewhat primed me for.  At most, I believe I counted 4 women, and I don’t recall any of them every speaking throughout the meetup.  That said, most of the meetup participants were rather silent throughout, with a rather enthusiastic core group of around 6 or 7 people doing most of the speaking.  To be clear, opportunities were fully extended for everyone to participate, but it seemed many were like me in that they didn’t really have anything to contribute to the proceedings.  It also seemed there were many different nationalities/ethnicities represented among the participants.  In fact, I think white American men may have actually been a minority in this particular group, though I’m not certain of that given the number of cameras that were turned off.  Sadly, I did not observe a single black participant; but, again, there were several blank screens. 

   I wish I could say that this meetup defied my expectations in some way, but in actuality it turned out almost exactly as I had expected.  I felt welcome.  But I also felt way out of place being a newbie to Python.  These were some serious coder types engaged in serious coder conversations I just couldn’t really get involved in.  As such, it made me feel like a bit of a voyeur.  Still, the conversation was interesting at times.  And the sense of community was definitely felt.  Several of these people clearly had come to know each other rather well through the course of these meetups for better or for worse, such that it felt very familial.  Everyone respected each other’s questions and viewpoints even while clearly being irritated at times by so-and-so and his typical so-and-so questions — or at least that was a dynamic I thought I picked up on at times.  

   While my participation in this particular meetup felt rather forced and didn’t really leave me with much in the way of valuable takeaways, it was still an interesting experience overall.  And it was good to hear how others besides Dr. Hauser talk about Python — the same in many ways for sure, but with some different shades and coloring here and there (as well as pronunciations I hadn’t considered).  Had I not been pushed to join such a meetup by this class, I probably would have never done so on my own.  I’m just not much of a joiner, and I’m generally too intimidated by the prospect of diving head first into a pool of expert practitioners - which this most certainly was.  But, having done so now, the door feels much more open to me.  I’m now a follower of this group on a couple of social media platforms and at the very least intend to keep an eye on future meetup events just in case any particular topics pique my interest.  It also seems that they hold periodic coding workshops to get feedback and advice on specific projects we might be working on.  I obviously have no sense at this point how well a novice might fare in that sort of meetup.  But, beyond this class, my plan is to keep building on my knowledge by creating little projects for myself based on problems I’d like to solve in my workplace.  As I dig into some of those personal projects, I may very well turn up at a meetup or two to see if anyone has any feedback or advice on whatever tack I’m taking at the moment.  As intimidating as it may be, it’s definitely reassuring just to know that once or twice a month there’s a group of people with specialized knowledge meeting up to talk about something that I myself would like to know more about.  I’d be a fool not to take advantage of that at least some of the time. 
