---
layout: post
author: YitongFeng726
title: "Yitong's Meetup Writeup"
---

# Meetup Writeup

I attended the Austin Python Monthly Meetup on the 12/08 hosted by Dillon Niederhut and about 20 people participated this meetup. To be honest, my procastination caused me to register for python meetup so late and I am so regretful that I don’t have opportunity to finish my meetup about the women in tech. While the meetup I attended also let me gain a lot. 

In general, I think it was has a warm and open atmosphere and gathered many tech geeks here to share and communicate, originally I thought I must open my microphone and camera to introduce myself as a new intruder in an embarrassing way (I supposed to join in another meetup that I was interested in but I can see only 3 people registered, 2 hosts and me and camera is required to be open, I don’t want to be at a loss for what to do so I didn’t show up in that meetup... ). After entering in the room, I found that people are chatting harmoniously, some of them are introducing that they just relocated from other cities and their job description here, and at the beginning of meeting, the hosts allow people to give announcements about recent hiring information in their companies, I think this way can better help Austin people to find a job  through referal and tie meetup members as a group.

The topic of that meetup was an introduction of ROS (robot operating system) which was presented by Greg Freeman, he can write python and C++ to create algorithms and software. From his introduction, I know this new word that I had never listened to, its a framework, or some packages in python and C++ for robotic applications and algorithms and it has been utilized by many big companies as well as startups. Then he introduced ROS ecosystem, some other important concepts, the iterative history of ROS, major packages and how to get start, one thing that really interested me was that the ROS core that used nodes to communicate, for example, some subscribe topics can communicate with publish topics through some nodes of request and response, nodes can be described as a subscriber or service client, and deliver more messages to service server and publishers. Besides, a loop closed circular process from sensors, controller, actuators pass feedback then going forth to make changes to the world also introduced clearly how did robots different with other software.

To be honest, I am still a rookie in technical fields, some professional jargons and explanation sounds intangible and hard to understand for me, but I still feel comfortable about attending this meetup. The online meetup can decrease my social and transportation cost and it’s quite convenient for me. Besides, if attendees may see the topic before the meetup every time will be more user friendly to help them choose which meetup can they participate. One day I think I will attend meetup topic like women in tech,(one thing I noticed that only 5-6 women attended yesterday’s meetup, quite a low ratio) I think it is more in line with my study and living environment and my needs, I would like to hear from more women about their experience in workplaces and how do they break the old ideas that men are more suitable for programming. Also, if I have time, I would prefer more demo class like people can present their project from idea to writing codes, and share some reflection and future work, maybe this form is like a tutorial class and more more suitable for guiding students?
