---
layout: post
author: bmb4227
title: "Brittany's Meetup Writeup!"
---
# Meetup Writeup Reflection
For my meetup experience, I chose to attend a Data and Donuts session hosted by the Research Data Services at the PCL on campus. Data and Donuts is a workshop series covering tools and skills that will help people manage their research data. This particular session focused on an Introduction to Python for Data Management. In the zoom session, the instructor skimmed over some of the basics of using Python, such as variables, lists, operators, and while loops. Many of his examples had to do with common data management problems, such as converting geospatial data formats. For his examples, he used a Jupyter notebook within Google Collab, which he made available to us. It was my first introduction to Google Collab, which seems like a great tool. The webinar went really fast and was a bit overwhelming to go over so much so quickly, but I like how the instructor was continually acknowledging it. He also put together a list of other resources, some available through UT, that we might find helpful. Overall, I found a lot of value in this webinar because it introduced me to a new tool and new resources for further learning. I’ve been to several Data and Donut sessions in the past, so I knew what to expect. I always feel very welcomed in that space, and I think they do a good job at not making any assumptions about what you know, so it is a great space for new learners. I also really appreciated that the instructor talked a bit about how he has been using Python for a really long time but makes a lot of mistakes and is continuously learning new things. I could definitely see myself becoming a member of a community like this in the future and do plan on participating in future Data and Donuts sessions. 
If anyone is interested, they are recording the Data and Donut sessions for the first time here: https://guides.lib.utexas.edu/data-and-donuts. 
