---
layout: post
author: luznette
title: "Janette's Treasure Hunt"
---
The while loops and try statements really started to make sense to me with this project. Especially since the equation for having the turtle be within 5 coordinates was already written out, it made writing the if statements fun this time around. The hard part came when trying to make the game creative. My first idea was that I wanted the game to start with a message on the screen using ```tina.write```. This message would then be cleared once the user clicked on the screen, and the game would begin with the prompt below asking for coordinates between -100 and 100. When the user would input coordinates, Tina would remember its old position by leaving its trace with ```tina.pendown()```. I tried different things, but I could not seem to figure out how to clear the message without having Tina the Turtle reset every time the user input new coordinates. After a few attempts, I decided to instead move the message on the screen to the very bottom, and use it as a space to write clues for the user since the message was not going to be erased. This message had to be put in the bottom in order to not get in the way of the game. I felt that it was more helpful to have a trace of what coordinates the user has made rather than have a bigger welcome message. I also wanted to give clues based on whether the user got the x or y coordinate correct with a nested if statement, but I also could not get that to work. Instead, I used the same formula that was provided and instead of 5 pixles, I changed it to 15. Anything more than that prompts a message letting the user know that they are too far. In order to make the game a little easier, I also changed the range from (-100,100) to (0,50). Lastly, I went into animations.py to change the congratulations message. 

I had a few issues with saving my assignment the first time, which made me have to start over and work on the project from start to finish. This also probably caused some lack of creativity and made me just want to make it work with the minimum requirements. I would have liked to spend some more time playing with click events and making my initial idea a reality. I will make sure that my assignment is properly saved next time in order to avoid that headache!

<iframe src="https://trinket.io/embed/python/428b61c672" width="100%" height="356" frameborder="0" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
