---
layout: post
author: luznette
title: "Janette's Meeting Write-up"
---
Earlier in the semester, I attended a Data & Donuts Workshop titled, Intro to Python for Data Management. The workshop covered some fundamentals to python in order to use it for research, and included demos as well. Because of COVID, it was not as interactive as I believe it normally would, but the organizers did a great job adjusting to that by using Google colab and not requiring participants to download any sort of software. I was very excited for this workshop because I wanted to see other ways that python could be used. As I had stated earlier in the semester, when I used to think of python or any other language, I reserved their use for coding websites and code. I never thought it would be usefull for other purposes, which is why I found it useful for the workshop to begin with a slide that explained why python is important. This, on top of the class readings and lectures have given me a much better idea of what python is capable of. 

The workshop began with the fundamentals, and this ended up being extremely helpful in seeing future concepts of the class, and then as a refreshser when I rewatched the workshop to write up this assignment. After that, they put the fundamentals into practice followed by demos of how python can be used for data managment.


I have a tendency to not be able to see the usefulness of the skills I learn beyond the assignment so this workshop, more than anything, reminded that me that python has a large community that I will be able to particpate in long after the class is over. I can attend workshops, or talk to others (since I now have the vocabulary) about all the ways that python can be useful for. The workshop also made me realize that with the knowledge that I have, I can most liklely hold conversations with others about other programing languages, as this class and workshop has already expanded the conversations I can have with my friends who work in tech. I initially joined this course so that I could, at the very least, know what my coworkers were talking about when they shared their project updates. There are so many open resources to continue and reinforce the skills that I have learned throughout this course. 
