---
layout: post
author: brianna-stedman
title: "Brianna's final project"
---

#PROJECT:

<iframe src="https://trinket.io/embed/python3/8459ccbda1" width="100%" height="600" frameborder="0" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

#REFLECTION:
For my final project, I decided to tackle the data analysis utility tool. I struggled with the Turtle projects we did, especially the graphical aspect of them, and I just felt much more comfortable working with csv files and math and printing things -- those were the homeworks that came more naturally to my brain. I am also currently taking Database Management, and for our final group project in that class, we built a search engine that pulled up the top 100 NBA players and their statistics. Since I already had access to that csv file and knew it would be clean and reasonable to work with, I built my data utility around that. Initially, I was planning on also involving aggregated team data, but that did not pan out as I had hoped. Instead, I added a capability to save an individual player to a “Dream Team” and then print out aggregated statistics based off of that.

I knew that I would be taking user input, searching through a csv file, creating dictionaries to print and write back to a file, but that is about it. I did not really check back to my milestones once I got started, since I knew essentially what I wanted to do -- I just wasn’t always sure how to do it. I did a LOT of googling; I knew in my head the order by which things needed to be accomplished in my code, so it was mostly looking up syntax, like writing dictionaries to csvs, etc. I’m putting all my links at the bottom of this, but be warned there’s a lot! The most helpful thing that I did for my process was drawing out a kind of flowchart on paper with the rough order of operations. Whenever I started to get lost in my custom functions or lost track of where I was, referring back to the paper map was really helpful, especially since each operation often had multiple options stemming from it. 

My first roadblock (worked for about 3.5 hours on this problem) was something as simple as setting the keys in my dictionary to be IDs from the csv file, and their values as the names. It didn’t help that the dictionaries chapter was one that I felt I didn’t totally understand. So, most of the 6 hours was spent teaching myself all the ins and outs of it. Since I wanted users to be able to search entire names and there isn’t really a wildcard function, I used .split() to break up the user input (in case they typed a full name) and iterate each word in the name, and return all the matches of that from the csv. I then wrote those into a dictionary, printed to the user so they could see all the potential matches for their query. But, I couldn’t figure out how to match off the name but then set the ID as key. My troubleshooting process was pretty much to continue googling and trying different things, deleting a lot of code until I was able to get it to work. 

My second roadblock (worked for about 6 hours on this problem as well) was editing the original csv to add and remove notes and a “Dream Team” tag. I had found that in trying to collect user input on whether to add a player to the Dream Team or not, simply creating a temporary dictionary wouldn’t work, since the user would need to access the list again from the Main Menu. With most of the user options happening within the search function, the Dream Team list would be lost as soon as the search function ended. So, I thought the easiest thing would be to simply add another column to the csv and mark it “Dream Team” or not, then I could write a separate function referencing it for the aggregated statistics. This was SO much harder than I thought it would be!!! (I was about halfway done with my project before I realized that I should have just imported the pandas module and learned to use it instead, but I stubbornly decided to continue using only the csv module. I think this was a big mistake and it would have saved me a lot of time to use pandas.) Since there is not a way to find and edit select cells in a csv, only read, write, and append entire rows (to my knowledge), I found how to open the original csv, iterate over it, only edit the matching rows, and write the rows to a new csv, which is then replaced over the old csv. After teaching myself how to do this I was able to use it to add two blank columns (one for the temporary Dream Team tag, and one for the temporary notes) at the opening of the app. 

Then, I taught myself how to use classes! They were way easier than I thought, and worked out perfectly for using the same user input to accomplish different forms of updating the csv. Since I had to open, read, write new, replace, erase, and close the csv *every single time* I had to update a row, I used a custom class to create four different functions to add and remove tags and notes based off whatever the user input, in a separate function. This was super helpful since I couldn’t pass objects between the other functions. I think figuring out how the classes worked took me a total of five or six hours but it was definitely the most satisfying aspect of this project. I definitely feel like I learned more over the course of working on this than most of the class, and I’ve learned a LOT in this class! Figuring out how to apply it to the project I was working on forced me to memorize the syntax and placement of the code I was using most often, so at the time of me writing this, I know a lot of it off the top of my head now, which is very cool -- and also made the second half of my project go a LOT faster than the first half, since I wasn’t having to google something every five minutes!

I will be honest, I spent way too much time on this for it to be what it is. It was really hard, and I’ve definitely learned a lot and gained a lot of skills! But it also brought a ton of stress, especially at the beginning, when I couldn’t even get my first function to work for almost six hours. Sticking with it was hard, but as the error codes came less and less frequently, it got a lot easier. I also am proud of how flexible I became during this project. In the first dozen hours of working on it, I would get sucked down endless rabbit holes of StackExchange threads, trying to solve my roadblock for hours. But the further I worked on the project, the more easily I became willing to stop going down the rabbit hole and instead try to think of other ways to accomplish what had me stumped. An example of this was when I was trying to save the Dream Team dictionary but kept losing it as the search function would exit. I pretty quickly realized that wouldn’t logically work, so then I tried to create a new csv when the user opened the program and copy the rows there, then reference THAT file for the aggregated statistics -- then I realized how many functions I would be having to build every time I needed to edit the list! That was when I thought about using classes, and I honestly didn’t know if it would even work, but I looked up the documentation and plugged in what I thought would work. It was SO satisfying when it did. Overall though, very stressful project, and I still wasn’t able to accommodate for no player search results -- one of those things I was getting sucked down a rabbit hole during, and have run out of time to finish. I’m very proud of my project, though, and the amount of learning I did over the course of building it. 

#REFERENCES:
https://thispointer.com/python-add-a-column-to-an-existing-csv-file/
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/7353743/make-dictionary-from-csv-file-columns
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/36603790/python-regex-findall-to-read-line-in-csv-file
https://www.hackerearth.com/practice/python/working-with-data/dictionary/tutorial/
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/45198869/create-dictionary-from-csv-with-headers
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/40148947/python-edit-specific-row-and-column-of-csv-file
https://www.w3schools.com/python/gloss_python_change_dictionary_item.asp
https://www.guru99.com/python-regular-expressions-complete-tutorial.html
https://www.programiz.com/python-programming/class
https://www.programiz.com/python-programming/methods/built-in/round
https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/clear-screen-python/



