---
 layout: post
 author: cmr4658
 title: "Chase's Meetup Writeup"
 ---

# Meetup Writeup

I went to the Austin Python Meetup hosted on Zoom on November 10. It was a pretty large meeting (more people attended than I was expecting) that was, to my surprise, really more like a collection of talks about new developments in the Python community. I wouldn't say it was particularly welcoming, but because of the less-interactive nature of the meetup, I don't know that it necessarily needed to be. I actually appreciated the fact that it wasn't really meant to be a social meeting--it took a lot of the pressure off having to introduce myself and trying to connect with the other people there (many of whom already seemed to know each other) and let me focus on the topics being presented (with my camera off).

The first presentation was about a platform for building web applications with Python as the only language. I didn't understand all the specifics of what he was talking about, but it seemed like an extension of something like Django that allows you to generate the HTML/CSS/JS of your page with Python instead of writing it all manually. It seemed like an interesting concept and it could probably make the development process faster, but I'm kind of skeptical of anything that obfuscates the "bones" of what you're making so heavily. The presenter (Meredydd Luff) did a live demonstration and seemed to have a good understanding of what was going on under the hood, and at the end he even talked about how "code is good" and any system that claims to let you build a website without any code or with very little code is making a false promise, which I definitely agree with. However, I didn't understand how this was any different, since it seemed like it was essentially just translating those other languages into Python, so what happens if the translation itself has issues? There might have been something in the presentation that would have explained it better if it hadn't flown over my head. It's also possible that I was reacting to the feeling of being sold something.

My other major concern was accessibility--while the drag-and-drop editor he was using did look straightforward, I wasn't noticing any options for ARIA attributes (let alone alt text or form labels) on the component pieces. There was a link to the site he was building during the live demonstration, so I ran it through the WAVE accessibility plugin. Sure enough, there were no headers, no page regions, no labels for any of the forms, and even the default "next page" and "previous page" buttons were unlabelled arrows that were so low in contrast even I could barely see them. Obviously it was meant to be a demo and not a fully functional web app, but I couldn't imagine trying to use a site like that with a screen reader. I'm frustrated at myself for not bringing it up during the questions section, but I still had that feeling that it had actually been explained earlier and it had just gone over my head. Also, I was struggling to word my concerns in a way that wouldn't put the presenter on the defensive and undermine what I was actually trying to get across.

Thinking back on it, I might try to reach out to the presenter after all. Even if it is possible to add accessibility components with a little digging, there's no reason for it to be an "advanced option" when in most cases it's literally just another HTML attribute. It's deeply frustrating to think about all the terrible web apps people are going to slap together with this that a significant portion of the population won't be able to use, not even because it would have taken a lot of extra work, but because their needs just weren't considered at any point in the process. I did think it was ironic that at the end of the speech the presenter talked about "accessibility" in terms of how easy something is to learn and use (specifically, about his tool being simple enough for a beginner and powerful enough for a professional) but somehow still didn't mention accessibility for people with disabilities. I think that was telling.

I actually preferred the second presentation--it was by one of the developers at Anaconda (Cheng Lee) talking about the new features in Python 3.10. Again, a lot of this went over my head (especially because it was late at this point and I was tired) but I did think the addition of switch-case statements was exciting--that is one of the only things about Javascript that I prefer over Python. :) 

I think I could find value in attending other events like this after class. It seems like a good way to keep tabs on what's happening in the Python community and even if I don't fully understand everything being talked about, it's helpful for me to expose myself to ideas that are a little bit more advanced than I understand right now. Often, when I'm learning something new, I'll remember those things I heard, make my own connections between them, and that's when ideas really stick for me. I could see myself attending another meeting like this, but before I do I need to put in more effort to prepare myself to bring up "difficult" topics and not let my lack of confidence in my own knowledge or fear of being a "know-it-all" prevent me from bringing up important concerns, since I know this is something that will happen again in the future, particularly with accessibility.
