---
layout: post
author: jasfromnz
title: "jasfromnz's final project and reflection"
---
Here's my final project:
<iframe src="https://trinket.io/embed/python3/b75f263558" width="100%" height="600" frameborder="0" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Original Milestones:
Opens files and puts lines into a dictionary
Set up functions for operations
Create function to print results
Create help text function
Make iterative
Allow user to exit program
Account for data type errors

Updated Milestones:
✓Opens files and puts lines into a dictionary
✓Create a class from the countries in data
Set up functions for operations:
	✓get input function, with bad input error
	✓print column
	✓min/max/range (first/last) items in column
	✓avg (mean, median, mode)
	✓count/total (excludes missing data)
✓Create option menu
✓Create help text function
✓Make iterative
✓Allow user to exit program

Stretch Goals:
Prevent data type errors by column
	-Create function that checks column for data type
	-Make lists of columns by data type
	-Create function that checks if column can be used in a function by checking against list
Add functions for comparing across countries
	-compare two columns (min/max/avg difference)

When I started brainstorming for my final project, I initially had no idea how to approach it. I was really worried that I did not have the programming skills or knowledge to accomplish what I needed to, and that the project would be too difficult. My original milestones were essentially just the project requirements, because I was not sure where to even start. I did not feel like I had a solid grasp on some of the project requirements, especially classes. The phrase “data analysis” felt really intimidating, as did “data visualization”. I had never used pyplot and was worried that it would be complicated and beyond my skill level. Overall, I went into this project really hesitantly and with lots of reservations about what I would be able to accomplish on my own. I did not feel like a ‘real’ programmer, and doubted my experience and skill level. I felt too daunted by the scope of the project to start on it for almost a week. However, once I forced myself to sit down and start trying to get at least a few lines of code down, I was able to relax a little more and had some inspiration for how to approach the project. I think that for myself personally, I need to actually start a little bit of work on a project in order to be able to visualize the process for it. Thinking about a project abstractly feels too hard, whereas when I actually write a few lines of starter code, it allows me to ‘jumpstart’ my brain and begin to think through what I need to do to work through the problem. With every project I have done for class this year, small or large, I had the exact same problem, where the project seemed scary and intimidating and I had no idea where to start until I actually forced myself to start writing whatever code I could. Once I have even just two or three lines of code started, I find it much easier to think through the requirements of the project or problem and can start planning from there. For this project, after I made myself start by writing a few lines of code that simply opened a text file, I was able to think through my approach to the project more easily and to adjust my milestones a little to include more of the specific project requirements, including planning where I would use classes and external files. However, my milestones were still not very detailed. 

Right after starting the code for this project, I decided that I would incorporate classes by creating a class object for each country’s data file and using it to store and format the data for each country. I am still not sure if this was the best use of classes in my project, but even after doing a lot of research on classes, including reading a lot of Python’s documentation on classes, I do not feel like I have a really solid grasp on what classes are and why and where they are useful in code. However, classes were a requirement for the project so I decided to work them in this way. I quickly hit a roadblock as I spent days trying to find a method to dynamically name classes based on user input. I think I struggled here because I really lack a good understanding of object oriented programming, and it made using classes really difficult. After a week of much reading of Python documentation and going through dozens of StackExchange discussions, I still could not figure out how to dynamically name the country class objects or if that was even possible. Most of the discussion posts seemed to discourage dynamically named classes, and so I decided it was better to instead use a workaround that bypassed the issue entirely. The downside to the workaround was that I could not think of a great way to let the user add however many different data files they wished, and so I was forced to limit the number of data files that could be loaded and used in my program. However, I had been stuck on the very beginning of my project for more than a week at this point and was frustrated to the point of wanting to quit, so it seemed better to leave the problem and create a more manageable program that I could at least finish. I decided to limit the user to inputting two different files, one per country, and simply called the class objects “c1” and “c2” (abbreviations for country one and country two). Finally finding a way to move past the problem, felt amazing and took a huge load of pressure off my shoulders. I felt so much better being able to move on with my project, and the rest of my project did go much more smoothly. It definitely was not worth the stress to find a solution that actually addressed the problem, and bypassing it entirely was the right choice for my project, even if it limited the scope of my project from what I had originally hoped to do. At this point, I did some reevaluation of my project goals and method and changed my milestones to be more specific and less ambitious. I had learned my lesson and with the deadline approaching, I decided it was far more important to at least meet the minimum requirements and have a manageable plan and a finished if simplistic project, rather than to get stuck on complex problems and end up with a broken or unfinished program.

After I figured out how I was going to use classes and implemented my workaround, the rest of my project felt far easier in comparison. I started with the easiest analysis functions, to get an idea of how my functions would look in terms of input variables. Once I had my first function, which was simply printing the data in a column, I was able to use it as a blueprint for all my other functions. I wanted my code to be as repetitive as possible, so I made everything I could into its own function. Although it is possible I went overboard, this honestly made a huge difference for me in simplifying my project and making the coding much easier for each new function. All I had to do was copy and paste a previous function, and edit the actual “action” code of the old function to do whatever I wanted the new function to do. The functions all called on the same helper functions to do the repetitive things like get the data the user specified and put it into a usable list for the function to work with, ask the user if they wanted to continue after the function had been run, evaluate whether the data could be analyzed, and evaluate whether the user entered valid input, so all I had to do for each new function was change the lines of code that actually analyzed the data. The only function I did struggle with was finding the mode in the averages function. Although I tried to at first, creating a counter to find the mode of the data was going to be difficult and take a lot of time and lines of code. I considered leaving it out entirely since I did not have the time to spend figuring it out on my own, but I felt like it added something by offering that comparison to the mean and median averages, so I found and imported a module for it (I hope that was okay). I was also really worried about figuring out how to do the data visualization, so I left it for last, but in the end it was not too difficult and I am happy with the resulting graphs that my program can produce. I had to read and reread the documentation for pyplot several times to get my graphs to appear correctly, and I wish I had more time to spend finding more ways to incorporate data visualization into my project, or that I  had more time to meet my stretch goal of comparing data between two countries. I also struggled while trying to fix all the “holes” in the final version of my code, and it’s possible there are still a few ways to break it through invalid input. Trinket started doing a strange thing where it made my code “jump” around on the screen, adding in weird spacing and messing with some formatting, breaking my graphs and causing me to have a mental breakdown (I have a screen capture video of the issue if you want to look at it, although it’s low quality video). However, with some reassurance from my programmer twin that I was not losing my mind, I was able to get a (hopefully) working result, and I am satisfied with the end result of my project and felt I put as much time and effort as I could into it to achieve a final result that I am proud of. 

After reviewing my finished code now, I am surprised how far I have come  just this semester, so I am trying to focus on how much I was able to accomplish for this project rather than look only at what I did not get done on this project. Although I did not accomplish any of my stretch goals in the end, being able to do data analysis with Python was a really daunting task going into the project, and so it feels like a really big accomplishment to me to have a finished and working project. This project is by far my best work from this class, and looking at the finished code, with all its helper functions organized so neatly, makes me feel like I am on my way to becoming a ‘real’ programmer.
