---
layout: post
author: sj-roh
title: "SJ's Final Project (Just code)"
---

## Reflection:

For my project, there were a lot of changes made. I had an initial idea that I ended up scrapping, as seen from my past updates. It was only during Thanksgiving break when I completely changed courses, the dataset that I wanted to use, and the type of data analysis that I wanted to conduct. This project taught me that programming takes one tiny step after another, but that after you take each step, you start becoming more and more comfortable, and more and more curious about the possibilities. I wanted to specifically do a data analysis project as my interests are in working with data, so naturally I wanted to incorporate different types of plots and summary statistics I could display to make my project more interesting. I used Python tools emulating the R Tidyverse package Dplyr, to manipulate data in order to help translate my thoughts into code. Learning Dplyr in R this semester has opened my eyes to the power we possess in data manipulation, providing statistics through the grouping and filtering of different variables. I wanted to make sure that I showcased all these tools I learned throughout the semester, as well as the foundational skills gained through lectures and Runestone Interactive.

There were many challenges in the beginning. The dataset I chose first was National Basketball Association focused, that contained game by game statistics for each player in the league. This became too complicated, as there were in total more than 50 variables within the dataset. I could not come to a conclusion on what sorts of analytics would interest the common user. I believe the group meetups helped greatly for the ideation process. Getting to see my groupmates projects and just the way they structured their thoughts and ideas into code was influential in the way that I changed my approach. I was appreciative of these meetings as I gained a brand new perspective after each one. For instance, after the first meeting I realized how much I needed to change the interactive user interface of my program as I initially had it set up so that the user would enter in first the dataset they wanted to focus on, and then enter in the option they wanted to go with. I scrapped this idea as I realized it was way too complicated after reviewing my groupmates’ first couple of screens, and decided to go with one dataset that opened immediately with the main menu instead. Additionally, after the second meeting, I realized I needed to change my datasets as they were way too complicated and uninteresting. My groupmates’ had really interesting ideas, and this influenced me to rethink of what I wanted to focus my project on; essentially, something that any person would come across, and be thought provoking.

Throughout the coding process, I stumbled numerous times through the structure of the code and including the while loops, editing the main menu, and making sure each printed line was interactive and fun for the user. I really tried to take on the role of a user, to visualize how I would interact with the interface, and what sorts of language made it the most fun, welcoming, and encouraging for myself. This was actually really fun to do, as I found myself adding more enthusiasm to the language I used and naturally adding more exclamation points, smiley faces, and fun comments. It was important to me that I made the program as interactive and as user-friendly as possible.

I enjoyed this project thoroughly, and loved how progress updates were set up each week so it held us accountable, and gave us mini milestones to make ourselves. To make progress each week was the goal, and the weekly updates did just that to ensure that work was done. If I could change some things about my code, it would be the aspects that needs polishing. The design of the interface, where the user clicks enter to go back to the main menu, and so that the options show first without the screen going immediately to the main menu. These details seem minor, but I realized that they all make a huge difference in how the program looks visually, and how user-friendly it is. I really appreciated Professor’s help in adding that one line of code at the end that made the user click enter to have the interface display the main menu. This small detail ended up making a huge difference in the user friendliness of my program. 

#### Here is the trinket code:

<iframe src="https://trinket.io/embed/python3/d3c5c4fd1e" width="100%" height="356" frameborder="0" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

#### Here is a link to the video on Panopto:

https://utexas.hosted.panopto.com/Panopto/Pages/Viewer.aspx?id=1f027e34-18b6-4dc1-9712-adf9013fb1bf
