---
layout: post
author: agunnells
title: "Ali's Meetup Writeup"
---

This writeup is focused on the 10/19 Evening of Python Coding event hosted by the Austin Python Meetup. I originally hoped to participate in the book club option that Elliott mentioned in class, but it took a very long time for it to get going. In addition, when meetings were finally announced, I wasn’t able to make any of them due to my schedule. I had luckily already signed up for this Austin Python Meetup event just in case. I held off on submitting my reflection because one of my classmates brought up the PyLadies ATX meeting, and I wanted to attend that and complete my writeup on that instead. Several of us logged into the meeting, but it was never started and we never got communication from the hosts that it was cancelled. Despite some of these roadblocks, I am ultimately happy that I attended the 10/19 Evening of Python Coding. 

Overall, this was a positive experience. I really did not know what to expect going into the meeting; I was definitely nervous that this would not be a welcoming environment or that I would feel very out of my element. I will admit that I expected to be completely lost and feel quite overwhelmed, especially because the presentation topic was quite advanced. The presenter was delivering a talk on Peerfetch, which from my understanding is a Python library that allows peer to peer HTTP connection over WebRTC; in other words, two browsers can connect directly to each other to trade data, video, and audio while ensuring end-to-end encryption since the shared content does not go through a server or cloud service. However, I think the host of the meeting did a nice job of making sure that attendees of different skill levels felt as comfortable as possible during the meeting. 

Before the presenter started his talk, the host mentioned that a lot of beginners were attending this meeting, and asked the presenter to go a little slower and explain things a little more than he normally would. The presenter also made sure to check in and see if any of the attendees were familiar with WebRTC before he started his presentation (none of us were familiar). I found that the host did a really nice job of making sure the presenter didn’t go too fast throughout his talk. Anytime the presenter started using more technical jargon, the host would jump in and break that jargon down for the beginners. In addition, the host asked the presenter to pause multiple times so that attendees could ask questions. I really appreciated this effort to include beginners. While much of the content delivered during the talk is still foreign to me, I definitely noticed a sincere effort on the host’s part to make the meeting as inclusive as possible to all skill levels. 

Although some of the specifics are still fuzzy for me, I did learn a bit about IP addresses and information sharing. The presentation opened with a discussion of the problems with storing or sharing data in a cloud service; the presenter explained that the point of the talk was to explore a means of ensuring end-to-end encryption when sharing data that does not go through a cloud service. The presenter also took some time to explain the challenges that accompany establishing a connection between two “peers” (i.e. two users) that both have IP addresses behind a firewall. My understanding from his talk is that, because our IP addresses are behind firewalls, they are not public, so there is no way for two browsers to securely connect with one another. Therefore, WebRTC is helpful because it allows a user to establish a temporary connection that creates a temporary public IP address and port. Two users can connect via these temporary IP addresses to allow data to flow directly between their two browsers without involving a server or cloud service in the middle. The presenter therefore led us through writing the Python script to set up Peerfetch and make a temporary IP address, port, and connection. 

Ultimately, this experience was different from my expectations because the community was much more welcoming than I expected, especially since the host made sure to stop and explain more advanced concepts to the beginners. I do think that I could find value in this kind of event after the end of this class. I am hoping to incorporate digital humanities into my research, and I can imagine myself attending similar events that walk through tools that require coding in Python or other languages. In addition, I think I could potentially see myself become a member of a professional community like this. Despite the positive experience here, I do wonder what the PyLadies meeting would have been like. I would like to attend a PyLadies event or digital humanities event in the future to see if that feels like a better fit for me in terms of my professional and academic interests. 
