---
layout: post
author: lulomax
title: "Lucius' final final project"
---

https://trinket.io/python/15beeb2dd6

My final reflection is that I’m tired of reflecting and it does not seem to assist me inordinately in coding. This seems very much like make-work, or that the professor is inexperienced and interested in an instruction paradigm that is overly-theoretical or not pertinent. For example, for this reflection, the instructor asked for 1500 words which is six double-spaced pages. For anyone who is literate in English that’s a lot and does not correlate with a description of a relatively-uncomplicated coding project. It’s as if the instructor has developed a belief on how to teach which he has not vetted with the demands of the course or with the students, which is a coincidence because that is the case with the coursework as well, and the platforms, which have not been checked or vetted.  This would have been a far more engaging course and my project would have been more rewarding, whatever that means, if the platforms had worked properly and less effort was spent on reflecting and more on the tasks at hand. But that was not my call. I believe I’ve said that previously, that it’s frustrating and almost mind-numbing when you don’t know if the difficulty that you’re encountering is due to poorly-written code or a platform that is not functioning. It’s even worse when you find out later that the difficulty was in fact due to the platform and not faulty code. But be that as it may.
	As the project was laid out to us, we were offered the opportunity to do a turtle animation project or a data project. The turtle exercises have not shown much promise for me personally because I’m not interested in animation or whatever skill turtle is intended to convey. But I am interested in data science and I chose the latter. Which required the downloading of the matplotlib library. Which did not work the first few times that I tried to download it and which I approached the T.A. about, to inquire if I was loading the library properly, which I was, but it simply didn’t run. Then I created a new trinket with the same library and suddenly it ran. I did a couple of practice pie charts which looked fine and learned how to do the labeling and choose colors, and also how to do a legend. Separately I wrote the code for the while loop that controls the help menu. And that worked and was not difficult. But when the two are combined, the while loop that controls selections and the matplotlib functionality that creates the charts, a Javascript error is thrown. I informed the instructor who said to use the version of trinket that runs off a server, in other words that one pays for, which is no big deal because the cost was trivial and I may use it next semester, but it still didn’t work. When you press run, the program goes into an infinite loop or it continues to throw the Javascript error. My reflection is that life is too short. We haven’t learned Java, I might add. I’m moving on.
	As far as the development of the final project has progressed, I am not sure what the instructor is looking for in terms of insight. As I said above, 1500 words is a lot in terms of a description of a homework assignment, not the assignment itself but describing what one has done. The project seemed to me to be very straightforward—for the data option at least—and would have progressed in a straightforward manner had the platform worked. The only facet that was moderately difficult was the while loop to control the help menu but I was able to find assistance online. My overall feeling is that this has been a disappointing experience on most levels but sometimes what doesn’t work can nonetheless be enlightening. 

