---
layout: post
author: samandalib
title: "Reflection on Turtle excercise"
---
I started the excercise with the purpose to make a cool output. I was thinking of making a texture made out of a cube that we can see 3 sides of it. The first challenge was to figure out how to draw the first cube to be able to repeat it and make the texture. I sketched the texture that I was thinking of on a piece of paper and did some calculations on the paper to lessen the confusion that I might face during the coding process. I decided to go with isometric cube and this decision made the work so much clear. Drawing the first side was easy but the second one was challanging since the direction of the turtle must change to go the right way after the first side is drawn. The same was with the top side of the cube with an added step of penup() and pendown() for starting the drawing. After drawing the first cube I thought the main part of the whole program was done and I only need to repeat it in some way. But I was totally wrong! The repeating part was the most pushing part of this program. I was thinking of repeating the cube in rows and columns to make a grid of cubes and it was difficult. The main challenge was to find the right place that the turtle should start from for each row and I found it must follow a different rule for odd and even rows. The best strategy that I took was to modularize the code in different functions to be able to manage the flow of the program. After hours of trial and error I found the sweet spot and the program ran as expected.

I added two input fields to ask the user for number of rows and columns to create the texture and by that I wanted to make it more interactive. Though it seems that the user have some control over the output of program, if I want to make this program more interesting, I would like to add some features so that user can decide about size of the texture, the starting point, color of the texture and even changing the angle values to see how different textures can be. Asking input after input can be painful for users and I believe the ideal way for bringing this amount of interactivity to the program requires designing a simple UI that users can manipulate and see the output of their changes at the runtime.
