---
layout: post
author: Elizard0926
title: "Elizabeth's Meetup Writeup"
---

On September 8th, 2021, I attended one of Austin Python’s monthly meetups. In hindsight, I think I would have liked to attend one later into the semester, but I think I got a general feel at the very least for the purpose and benefits of these periodic monthly gatherings. Overall, I felt that it was a good first experience, and it was at the very least, *not* discouraging to me as a novice programmer.

The main topic was on a web framework called “FastAPI.” The presenter, Collier King, covered its background and history, its traction in the Python community, and its uses and benefits. He then ended with a coding demo using the framework. In the first part of the presentation, King briefly explained what a web framework was. At the time, I had no idea what a web framework was, and though he provided a definition on the slide, I still wasn’t quite sure what it was because the definition had vocabulary that I did not know like “protocols, sockets or process/thread management.” The one thing I was able to understand from those first couple slides though was a picture chart that was split into two categories: frontend frameworks and backend frameworks. On the left side, the diagram had images of the React.JS and Angular.JS logos under the frontend side. On the right, there were logos for django and Node.JS. Highlighted at the center of the backend frameworks was the logo for FastAPI. Conceptually, I had some knowledge of what frontend and backend meant, so this helped me understand somewhat what kind of tool FastAPI was. My rudimentary understanding is that frontend refers to the visible part or the UI while backend is more of the technical “nuts and bolts” of something.

Something else that I thought was interesting was the concept of “batteries included.” King used a line with arrowheads on either end to represent how FastAPI compared to other web frameworks in terms of having built-in features versus more flexible design. On the far end of the “batteries included” side was django and on the other side of the spectrum was a framework called Flask which is more “do it yourself.” According to King, the benefit of something like FastAPI (which was close to the center but leaned more to the do it yourself end), was that it offers more flexible opportunities while still maintaining convenient “batteries included” kind of features. I’m still not sure what it really means, but a theme that I picked up on during this segment and something that came up often during the presentation was the idea that new technologies or tools should be improving either speed, data validation, or documentation in some way while using Python.

In terms of the group dynamics, there was a really interesting moment during the meetup where an older man interrupted the speaker during the demo to ask what a “route” was. He seemed like he might’ve been a senior member of the organization or someone with maybe some authority as he gently reminded the speaker to slow down and explain things for people who are new to Python. I think the comment was referring perhaps to people who might have some basic coding background or proficiency in another language but who may not be as familiar with Python specifically. As someone who was new to both Python and just coding in general, I found that the speaker’s adjustments to this comment weren’t noticeably more helpful, but I’m sure I would’ve maybe gotten something out of it if I perhaps had just a little more time and experience with coding.

If I were to attend a monthly meetup again, I think I would at least either pre-read or do some light research beforehand on that session’s topic beforehand. Much like how a successful studying strategy is to read material before lectures, I think I would’ve understood or consolidated more of the information had I known or had a vague idea of something like a web framework or a JSON object prior to the talk. Also, I think if I were to join a professional Python community, I would like to join one that has perhaps more of an emphasis in creative technologies or innovative uses of Python with a visual media or gaming focus. 
