---
layout: post
author: acreese
title: "Alex's Meetup Writeup"
---

For my off-campus cultural immersion meetup experience, I attended the Austin Python Meetup's November "Monthly Meetup" last week (November 10th) held remotely via Zoom. It was my first introduction to a noneducational technical/programming community, and I think it went well. It was structured around two presentations and respective Q&A sessions, the first by a British Python programmer and entrepreneur, Meredydd Luff, titled “Anvil: Full-Stack Web With Nothing But Python,” and the second by local programmer Cheng Lee, titled “A (Brief) Tour of Python 3.10.” I was exposed to a lot of new and unfamiliar ideas and language, and while I didn’t leave with an excess of new knowledge, I did leave with some new ideas and a sense possibility. 

I found the community neither overtly welcoming nor exclusive. Upon joining the Zoom meeting, I noticed most of the 20-30 attendees had their cameras off except for a small group of men that included the hosts, presenters, and what seemed like other community regulars and leaders. They were talking more or less familiarly with each other, without really making a big welcome to or acknowledgement of the other attendees or the meeting format until some time had passed. In this way, it had a “boys club” or insider feeling to it, especially because they spoke in very technical language from the start (not much of which I understood), but it was still interesting to witness and overhear. 

The first presentation by Luff – an enthusiastic and well-spoken presenter – was about his product/platform, Anvil, which allows users to build full stack web applications all powered by Python. I am only reasonably well-versed in front-end web development, but have some idea about the different languages that web development requires on the back end, so it was certainly an intriguing concept. A central feature of his system was a program that converted python to JavaScript, although I didn’t understand much of the details or, really, the vast majority of what he was talking about. However, he had a very tight presentation and used Anvil to demonstrate the construction and deployment of a simple database-backed web application which was quite cool to see. What I did understand and appreciate was his final call to action for accessibility. He called for a method of web development that was easy enough for novices to use and powerful enough for professionals to develop further for their needs. He called it “shameful” that developing web applications required knowledge of five different coding languages. As a novice, I was understandably inspired and encouraged by this rhetoric and happy to see that advanced professionals in the field were wanting to include *me* and account for my needs. Ultimately, Luff was very generous with his time at the end taking numerous questions and offering further demonstrations even though it was 2 AM for him in England. Of course, he had some incentive to do so: although Anvil has a large open-source component and a free version, it is of course a product that he is trying to promote and market. 

The second speaker, Cheng Lee, was far less enthusiastic (perhaps because he had nothing to sell) and went so far as to say he hoped he would not have to be the ones to present the next release, but he was still a fairly personable and very capable presenter. As a principal software engineer with Anaconda Inc., he was offering a highlight reel for the new release of Python – Python 3.10. As with Luff’s presentation, I did not understand a vast majority of the new developments, but I did understand the appeal of new improvements to syntax errors, which would now me more explicit and accurate with suggesting missing punctuation and operators. Similarly attribute errors and name errors would provide suggestions for variables that might have been mistyped. Additionally, the new release would allow for the pipe “|” to be used as the union operator, and it offered match/case functionality to simply if/elif/else syntax, which Lee calld “syntactical sugar.” My understanding, though partial and fleeting, felt like something to be proud of – it was fun to think that I could keep up for a second. 

Although there was much I did not fully (or even partially understand), I believe I was exposed to ideas and language that will facilitate my study of Python in the future. In other words, though I don’t think I can learn purely through passive exposure, it helped me understand more about what I don’t know, and I believe that such exposure to new language and ideas has primed me to receive new concepts and skills more readily. In this way, I found the event a valuable opportunity and would definitely consider attending in future months to assist in my learning of Python. Becoming an active member – one who asks questions or might even one day present – feels so far off as to seem improbable, but I will admit to poking around on LinkedIn, investigating the credentials of community leaders and meeting participants and thinking that some of the younger participants had educational backgrounds not unsimilar to mine and had made somewhat clear and reasonable steps to get to an impressive level of Python fluency. Realizing this made the idea becoming an active member and professional programmer not seem like such a wild idea.
