---
layout: post
author: areiter18
title: Final Project Code + Reflection
---
 I would not be truthful if I did not say somewhere in this reflection that the final project for this course had caused me some nervousness at the start of the semester when I first looked over the syllabus. At the time it felt, as someone who knew nothing about code, that this would be an insurmountable task, a project that would cause me considerable stress. However, as I reflect on this project, and the semester, I believe that my final project was the component of this course that I learned the most from. It required me to synthesize various skills and definitions that we had used and put them together. Having the opportunity to reflect on the previously learned materials while trying to fit them into a personalized project was the most rewarding and challenging aspect of this course. 
    
   When it came time to think about our project, I knew I wanted to do something related to data analysis. While the turtles had been an exciting element of the course, I found myself drawn to data because of my future goals and my work as a Graduate Research Assistant at the Texas Digital Library. Initially, I had trouble deciding where to find a workable dataset but some research on the internet pointed me to Kaggle, which came in handy. I was able to find a dataset that reflected my interests in government and politics. This dataset was workable, complicated enough that I would have some challenges, but not impossible for someone who still considered themselves elementary in their knowledge of Python. One of my initial issues with this project was trying to figure out how to pull data from the “.csv” file. At first, upon reflection, I was not thinking critically enough about what we had previously learned in the course, so I was not having much success. An office hours appointment assisted greatly with creating a workable plan for this data. I am grateful that Prof. Hauser suggested reviewing dictionaries because this was exactly what this type of data needed.
    
   When I found the direction that this project was going to go in, I decided to adopt a philosophy of setting workable deadlines. I also was patient with myself because I knew that I would have difficulties, confusion, and frustration when aspects of my project were not working the way that I needed them to. I decided to compartmentalize my project, working on various aspects starting with the dictionary. When I needed to work on something such as the dictionary, I also budgeted time to review the textbook chapters and class notes that corresponded with the part of the project I was working on. This was helpful because it allowed me to better apply previously learned material to my project and it also gave me the sense that I was not falling behind on a particular project deadline because I had to review materials. 
   
   My first “lightbulb” moment had to do with creating my dictionary. I devoted considerable time to reviewing the class notes and materials prior to working on this and I am grateful I did. I was rather nervous that I was going to receive an error message, an anxiety that was repeated throughout my project, but I was pleased when my dictionary returned the values in the way I wanted it to. It was a small, affirming victory that allowed me to feel confident at the start of this project. Starting small and reaching those initial goals allowed me to confidently move throughout the project in its early stages. When I was able to successfully create something, I did not agonize over what was going to come next. Instead, I would put the project away, remove myself from my computer screen, and take a walk or read a book. It was a nice balance and it felt that I was rewarding myself for completing milestones instead of stressing over what still had to be done. This was a new project completion philosophy for me, but I think I will apply this to other big projects I have in other courses. While it required more planning on my part, I also felt less stress because I was completing things still, even if I had a lot of work left to do
   
   After I created my dictionary, I still did not have a concrete idea of what I wanted to do with this data. So, again, I started small. Why not give my user the chance to pick a random number and pull data? I thought this was a fairly simple and straightforward way to begin my project. This was also the part of the project where I hit my first major roadblock. I had designed the code so that it would return the data for a country assigned a key value from 1-228. Or so I thought. However, each time the user would input a number, nothing would print. It was quite frustrating, but I could not figure out what was going on. Realizing that I needed to remove myself from the project, I took a break and returned to the project a few hours later. I patiently reviewed notes and discovered that I had forgotten to include ```int ``` in the line of code, causing the program not to do what I wanted it to do. This was a frustrating but necessary reminder to closely review each line and figure out what exactly was going on. While my initial instinct had been to assume that something was wrong with my data and/or dictionary, it turned I had forgotten a simple, three letter phrase.
    
   After I got through that roadblock, I felt far more confident with where this project was heading. I had my dictionary; I had an elementary user input but what I was lacking was a user interface. I still only had a rough idea of where this was going to go but I settled on a test user interface that would pull data from a few countries. This was a good decision on my part because it allowed me to concentrate and then expand once I had grasped what I wanted to do. I was able to incorporate more countries into my interface for people to view once I had figured out what I wanted to do with the data. I think that this part of my code could have been improved on though. For example, I don’t love all the text but felt it was necessary to explain some of the more complicated data. I think that if I had more time and experience, I would have cleaned this up a little more but, overall, I think it exceeded the expectations I had set for myself, so I am still relatively pleased with it. 
    
  I also spent time learning more about graphs and tables in Python. I watched a YouTube tutorial on pie charts and knew I wanted to incorporate these into my project[^1]. At first, I thought of creating graphs and charts based on user input but realized this was too ambitious for me. I simply did not have the knowledge to finish this, so I settled on some examples for my users. I reviewed some material courtesy of matplotlib, which was helpful in visualizing and using their materials to get percentages, for example[^2]. I personally am proud of myself for learning to create a graph and a table and I think it enhanced my project. However, if I had more time and knowledge, I would have been keen to add some sort of user engagement with the graphs. I think this would have been interesting for the user and made the project more engaging. 
  
  Once I had a firm foundation for my project, I added custom modules. For example, I created a module called “hello.py” that returns a function asking for the user’s name. I thought that this customizable engagement would make my project feel less artificial and more personalized. It was a nice touch and one that I was able to add because I had patiently completed other milestones. For the sake of organization and testing modules out, I moved my pie chart and table to a separate module called “charts.py” and imported them, too. It was neat to see these aspects of the project work well and I think they contributed to a more organized trinket. 
  
   I think, overall, I am content with how my final project turned out. I did not know anything about coding prior to this class and now I have completed a project that returns data and information for a user. There is something satisfying about being able to apply your knowledge to something you personally created. It is also gratifying to know that all the data and work I did on it was completed by me and only me. I think that is something I am most proud of. Never did I think that I would be working with data and Python and getting successful results. Overall, this was a unique experience and one that turned out a lot better than I had anticipated back in August. I hope that my code reflects the progress I personally feel I have made in this course. While I know there is still a lot to learn, I think that this final project has encouraged me to keep learning Python and take other courses where coding is a required component. Perhaps, as I advance in skill, I can return to this and apply the knowledge I learn later on to make this project even better.
    
<b> You can view my final code here: </b>
<iframe src="https://trinket.io/embed/python3/56feeed5e6" width="100%" height="600" frameborder="0" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

[^1]: (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=e0Cuxl9Foeo)
[^2]: (https://matplotlib.org/stable/gallery/pie_and_polar_charts/pie_features.html)

