---
layout: post
author: sarahva47
title: "Sarah Varenhorst's Meetup Writeup"
---

I attended an event based in Canada with Startup Edmonton. Finding an event to attend was perhaps the most challenging part of this assignment. I have a busy work schedule and essentially every event overlapped with work or classes. Thankfully, because of Thanksgiving, my evening class was cancelled and I could attend this event on a Wednesday night. I was interested in this one because one question I still have is examples of technology using Python. This meeting was intended to introduce a new piece of technology called White Whale (to be released next year) from a Canadian company called DeapSea. There was a scheduled speaker, Peter Guo, who is the Head of Algorithms at White Whale, which is a data science company. I thought it would be an interesting place to learn more about Python's usage. To be honest, another factor in my decision to attend is that, with a Canada-based event, the likelihood of running into the folks at the event is extremely low and it made me feel a little more reassured as a newer member of the programming world. That is, if I ask a stupid question, no one who I know in "real life" would know. 

At the beginning of the presentation, information was given such as upcoming conferences and events, job opportunities (both in Alberta and remote), and news and articles. I learned from this that you can put an emoji in Python using "\N{Name_of_emoji}." They also ran a giveaway during the event for three one-year licenses to a software with which I'm unfamiliar but seem to be useful for Python programmers, Jet Brains' software PyCharm. White Whale also gave away a food delivery gift card for filling out a post-presentation survey. During the presentation, Peter introduced White Whale and walked through two examples of using it. White Whale seems to be able to aggregate data and produce clear, editable(?) graphs and charts. They appear to, for data science, make Python-centered data science easier to manage.

What I was most surprised by was my understanding of the language. By participating in an event so late into the semester, I had a grasp on what I'm sure would have confused me still at the beginning of the semester, like functions. I wsn't wholly sure how to participate since it was a presentation-style format, but I asked a question about the industries that may be interested in White Whale. The answer was what White Whale attempts to be agnostic towards industries so that it has a broad scope of use and encourages creativity from data scientists. At the end of the presentation, for the giveaways, they used Python to find the winners of the drawing. From the presentation, I learned more about the types of technologies which data scientists can use. For the final project, I'm creating a Turtle game but I think this presentation would have been of interest to the data analysis students. 

I was worried about attending a general event (I think myself and quite a few other girls in this class were hoping for a Pyladies event to attend), but for being a general event, it felt welcoming and safe, and quite a few other women were in attendance. They also encouraged community and conversation through the video meetup platform they used, Remo, which creates little, virtual tables and "breakout room" style chats before and after the general meeting so that folks can converse with each other. I can definitely see a strong value in attending these events, both as a Python newbie and eventually in a professional career, if I go that route in life. It felt like an open and safe space for asking questions and just learning more about Python. With the giveaways for Python technology and posted job opportunities, they seemed very open to programmers at all stages of their careers. I can definitely see myself, if I engage with programming in a professional career, using a group such as this to gain a sense of community and learn more about opportunities in the local area. 
