---
layout: post
author: alueker
title: "Andrew L's Meetup Writeup"
---
I attended a session of the Austin Python meetup on November 10th, 2021. The meeting was largely technical and was comprised of content such as connecting a web-based Python application to a MySQL server. One of the standout lessons of this session were that coding is good and is the best way to communicate directly with the computer and that programmers should not only stick to what they are familiar with, comparing it to a child playing in a sandbox making the same sandcastle they know how to make using their pail. Although I will not pretend like I was enthralled by what they were discussing, the ways in which the veteran programmers discussed and communicated with each other was interesting to see!

Before the meeting even started, I caught a glimpse of the presenters talking amongst themselves, with one noting they were from Eastern Europe (I believe Romania), and another being from Western Europe (he didn’t say where, but his accent was clearly from somewhere in the United Kingdom). When I heard that, it made me realize that while coding language have syntax and barriers that allow only experienced speakers to understand certain intricacies, the global nature of technology allows coders to overcome cultural barriers in a way that traditional written/spoken language does not allow. However, there are still barriers that surround the technology and especially the coding scene.

I’ve talked in my previous reflections about the unfair scrutiny that women (especially in the tech sector) face, which reports out of companies such as Activision/Blizzard prove are still very much an issue. The entire panel of speakers was male, which on its own wouldn’t be an issue, but this was accompanied by the fact that most of the audience was male. Several women in the class have voiced that they were not comfortable engaging with the group and meeting because of its largely male composition; it’s unfortunate that they were unable to participate in a public coding group without having to fear the stereotype that women face in technology related sectors. For me, it didn’t turn out that bad though.

I was pleasantly surprised by the environment at the meeting; it was clear that many of the presenters were good friends and had great chemistry when interacting with each other. When answering audience member questions, they were very respectful to the audience and seemed genuinely grateful for the meeting turnout. It came across less like a snobby elitist society for experienced coders and more like a group of people that genuinely enjoyed coding as a hobby or profession and were excited to share their experiences and knowledge with the world. I found the meeting to be an informative session helmed by coding enthusiast, and it would be interested to visit other tech communities in the future.

Having experienced a predominantly male tech group, it would be interesting to see how other groups that are predominantly composed of marginalized groups would operate differently outside of a cisgender white male environment. How would the experiences of different groups differ from the group I was apart of? Would these differences impact how they code or even how they process information? These are some of my initial thoughts.
