---
layout: post
author: 
- elliott
categories: 
- exercise
title: "Game App Project"
published: false
---

This is the second major development project we'll complete together. It is designed
to encourage you to utilize the knowledge and skills you've developed, as well
as the problem solving strategies and attitudes we've been talking about. 

Create a Game App, written in Python and using Trinket.

Specifically, your app should:

* Have an entirely graphical user interface (i.e. no printed text input besides
what turtle.write())
* Use key events
* Use click events
* Have an 'object', i.e. a reason to play.  This usually means a way to 'win' but
you could choose to have a game that's a little more open-ended, such as accumulating points
* Display an anmiated and congratualatory 'Win' screen when the user achieves the object of the game.  If your game is more open-ended this could be something that happens
throughout their expierience.  
* Keep track of 'state'.  If, for instance, the object of your game was to collect coins, keep
track of how main coins were collected.  This doesn't have to use a Dictionary like I do in chapter 4,
but you'll probably need to use a global variable of some sort.
* Display information (including relevant aspects of game state) to the user using custom turtle objects. If you use the Counter class from the videos, make
sure you have created other Turtle-based classes from scratch.
* (Optional) Let the user play again or start over without using the Run button.

Additionally, your code should:

* Utilize custom modules for readability and organization
* Utilize custom functions for modularity
* Utilize definite loops (i.e. `for` loops)
* Utilize multiple Turtle objects
* Use objects that are instantions of one or more custom **extensions** of Python's Turtle class (NEW)
* Use at least two custom methods in your custom classes (NEW)
* Utilize a named Screen object
* Run without errors
* Be well-commented
* Be well-organized and readable

# No Outside Help

On this assignment, primarily use our text and my video as a reference.  **Do not** seek
direct help from another person.  Googling for small syntax information, etc. is fine but
**do not** copy and paste any code from the internet.  All code used in this exercise should
be your own or heavily adapted.

Please review the university's honor code and my stance on honor as stated in the syllabus.
See me with any questions.

# No TurtleChases

Yes, it would be easy to make a TurtleChase game sketch like I do in Chapter 3 of the video.
No, you would not learn very much by doing that.  If you use the Runner or 
Chaser objects in your game, make sure you have other custom objects entirely of your own design.

# Milestones

Just like last time, it's imperative that you break this assignment down into small, acheivable pieces!

Games are a very complex category of program and there's a distinct danger of **scope creep** (doing more than you'd planned)
and **overreach** (planning more than you can do).  That's why small milestones will help you: you'll have an overview of 
where yo think you're headed and where you thought you'd be, allowing you to recalibrate.

When you identify an element of your program that can be developed independently,
think of it as a **milestone**.  The various intermediate assignments you'll have 
will coach you through developing a list of milestones.  Include your revised list 
of milestones with your submission. Remember to use markdown's checkbox notation and
it's OK to include incomplete milestones as long as you satisfy the requirements above.
We all have to scale back scope on software projects.

**Note:** Milestones are not the same as project requirements.  For instance `- [ ] Be well commented` is
not a discrete, acheiveable thing, whereas `- [ ] Game displays a welcome message` is.

# Extras

There are lots of extra tools and concepts in my videos that you can use, like 
checking for intersection between objects using recursion and `screen.ontimer()`.  If you choose to 
do a Turtle program for your final, you'll have plenty of chance to use these
more advanced concepts, but consider trying some of them now for an extra challenge.

# Reflection

You guessed it: the reflection is an important piece of the puzzle.  For this reflection
the minimum lengeth I'm looking for is **250 words.** Quality is more important than quanity,
of course, but the number is intended to help you understand my expectations for this assignment.

To be able to properly reflect as well as complete the assignment, start early!

# What to submit

* A well-formatted pull request containing a post...
* ...with your drawing app embedded
* ...with your 250+ word reflection included
* ...with your revised milestone list included

# Ideas

Think of your game in terms of its main interface paradigm

* Keyboard controlled Turtle-like objects that move around the screen and do things (recommended)
* An animated game where the user must guess a number, guess where something is, or answer a math questions using the number keys (recommended)
* A hangman-like game where the user presses a key to guess a letter.  Remember, you shouldn't be using `input()` (advanced)
* Side-scrolling or down-scrolling games where the turtle is mostly stationary and the other objects
move according to a timer or in response to user key presses (advanced)
