---
layout: post
author: elliott
categories:
  - exercise
title: "Regex Exercises (POSTPONED)"
inclass: true
published: false
---

Work in Pairs for this one.  Only one pull request needed per pair.  Reflections *always* important.

Submit a well-formatted pull request to our class blog with embedded Trinket programs for the below three
exercises from Chapter X (use these instead of the ones in the book - I added a few explanations).
Complete these on your own, using only the materials in this Chapter. Do not
look at other students' submissions until after you've completed your work.

___

**Exercise 1:** Write a simple program to (kind-of) simulate the operation of the grep command on Unix. Ask the user to enter a regular expression and count the number of lines that matched the regular expression.  Unlike the real grep, your progam shuld always search mbox-short.txt.

```
Enter a regular expression: ^Author
mbox-short.txt had 1798 lines that matched ^Author

Enter a regular expression: ^X-
mbox-short.txt had 14368 lines that matched ^X-


Enter a regular expression: java$
mbox-short.txt had 4218 lines that matched java$
```

**Exercise 2:** Write a program to look for lines of the form

`New Revision: 39772`
and extract the number from each of the lines using a regular expression and the findall() method. Compute the average of the numbers and print out the average.

Enter file:mbox.txt
38549.7949721

Enter file:mbox-short.txt
39756.9259259

**Exercise 3:** Write a program that prompts the user for a regular expression and a column number n and returns all rows which nth column has a match with the regex.  This program should have the .csv data we previuously used loaded into a list of lists.  You can re-use code from a previous assignment, but **duplicate** it in Trinket so you can save the original embeds.  Make sure your table is printed as tab separated values.  The `"\t".join()` thingie will be helpful here.

This program will let users quickly select all rows in a table that match a given regex in a given column.  So I could find all Johns or all transactions that took place in a range of states, etc.