---
layout: post
author: cridley17
title: "Claire's Meetup Writeup"
---
  The first meetup I attempted to attend was a virtual PyLadies Austin meetup on November 15. However, the meeting did not occur as scheduled. I waited an hour to see if the meeting would eventually start and it never did. It was very off-putting to me that the meeting did not occur and there was no warning or message from the organization saying that it was canceled. There was no communication from the group whatsoever about why this meeting did not occur. It felt very disrespectful of my time because of this lack of communication. Also due to this, I had to quickly find another meetup to attend. 
  The meetup I attended was a Ladies Who Code, Washington DC meetup on November 16. The meetup included a lecture entitled “How and Why to Test Data Pipelines” with a discussion afterward. The meeting began with a reading of the Ladies Who Code code of conduct. The code of conduct emphasized inclusivity and a zero tolerance of harassment of their members. Starting with the code of conduct made the environment feel safe and welcoming, particularly as a newcomer. 
	The lecture during the meetup was highly informative and easy to digest, even for a beginner. The talk was about testing the quality of data to ensure that raw data is what you would expect so that when the data is visualized in dashboards, the analytics are accurate. One emphasis was, that without quality data decisions made based on the data could potentially be wrong and trust can be ruined with a data analytics team in a company because of poor data. The presenter went through different tools that you could use to test data. The talk overall was straightforward, informative, and I felt like I could understand the concepts well. The speaker was very receptive to questions and very respectful of those asking questions about her presentation. After the speaker was finished there was a discussion about the lecture between participants that also added additional value to the points the speaker made. I did not engage in the discussion but it was interesting to listen to other professionals from different backgrounds in different positions engage with each other on the topic. 
	This kind of event would be highly valuable after class. Being able to engage in talks that could potentially be of use and interest to me with people who are knowledgeable in the field is a highly valuable experience. Also, after being in this class I feel like I am better equipped to engage in these kinds of discussions because I have the basic knowledge and vocabulary to understand what is going on. 
	This experience greatly differed from my expectations. I was not expecting to understand what the lecture in the meeting was about, nor was I expecting to be able to understand any discussion that followed. I was expecting a highly technical meeting that would not be friendly to someone who is new to programming, but I was pleasantly surprised. I was able to understand the lecture and because of this was able to be interested and engaged in the proceedings of the meeting. I was able to digest all the information and was intrigued by the speaker and subsequent discussion. I was also not expecting the environment of the meeting to be so friendly and welcoming. 
	I think becoming a member of a professional community like this in the future would be beneficial. It is helpful to discuss with other professionals about your ideas to get a fresh perspective and hear about what others are doing in your field. I believe being involved in a professional community helps you to grow in your profession by hearing the thoughts of people with who you may not normally engage on a daily basis. Professionals in a given field come from a variety of backgrounds and all work in different ways, and it is useful to engage with people to learn from their experience.
