---
author: elliott
category: notes
published: false
layout: post
title: "App Clinic & Meetups check-in"
---

# Q&A 

- For Issues: Please use "Fixes #XXX" in your **Pull Request** description so they get automatically closed. OR, close them manually once the PR is merged (but who wants to do that?)
- Apps & reflections due tomorrow night at midnight!  Don't miss this deadline.
- Doughnuts on Thurs!  Please feel free to bring in goodies to share.
- Any Qs?

# Check-in

How are your **Meetups** coming?

5 minute Meetups Scatergories.  Make a list of 3-5 local (less than one hour drive from UNC) programming meetups, with links 
to a website and their next meeting. (Must have an upcoming meeting)

Scoring: One point for each qualified meetup that's totally unique.

Who wins: Besides us all, since we now have a dedicated list of great meetups? The person(s)
with the highest score.

How are your **Open Source** contributions coming?

Consider playing a similar game with some friends.

# 5-10 minute Exam review

There were lots of details in there!  How did it feel?

Answers [here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Wj5kL_r20SDkd5MPOyHQ_I6md0RorIDdM_TN0t0E_6k/edit).  Please **do not** share these answers with friends in the other section.


# 15-25 minute App & Milestones Clinic

* 3 Volunteers or randomly chosen students for full class clinic

# Pair Up! (~30 mins)

* Explain your app to your partner
* Identify what's left to do
* You should have: 'object' of the game, basic structure, most of the requirements.
* Focus on: Is the game fun? Can you increase 'production value'? Anything you need to tighten up?
* Bubble up any tough questions to me

If you finish discussing your apps, keep working on your app and use your partner and me as resources while you can.