---
author: elliott
category: notes
title: "Project Update 1"
layout: post
published: false
---

# Q & A

* Open source contributions and meetup reflections both due by the 29th
* From now on: snapshots of your work
* Pycharmers: snapshot into trinket or use git (instructions will vary slightly from below)


# Project Update 1

* Pair up
* Merge up
* Stand up (not literally)

During standup:

* What did you say you'd do?
* What did you actually do?
* Show and tell your program
* What will you do for next class?
* Any problems?

After everyone's done their update, revise your milestones (in your existing post) and **get your partner to merge your revisions**.

# Basics for Cloud 9ers (and anyone else interested) - Last ~15 mins of class

Write and run a Python program:

* make a .py python program
* in a terminal, type `python3 [filename]`
* OR add the magical `#!/usr/bin/python3` to the top.  You can then use C9's Run button.

Initial git setup:

* cd into your project directory (put your stuff into a directory if needed)
* `git init` if you haven't already
* `git add .`
* `git commit -m "your commit message here"`
* Make a repo on github.com.  Don't initialize it with a Readme!
* `git remote add [name] [url]`
* git push -u [name] [master]

Each time thereafter:

* save your work
* Add, commit, and push.  The other steps are only needed once.  When you `git add` you can specify specific filenames instead of all files.
* Verify that your new commits show up on github.com.  This is where intelligible commit messages will help.

Notes:

* `git status`, `ls` and `pwd` give you info!
* I'm allowing you to commit to and push to the `master` branch for simplicity. You'd only do this for a personal project and even then branching is always a good idea. Know on a real project you'd be doing pull requests!
* Try to commit locally each time you hit a milestone.  That'll make your commit history mirror your progress.  If you wait till the end your commit history won't be very useful.
* Remember to `push` your changes before every project update!

Customization:

`$HISTSIZE` and other Bash environment variables. `c9 ~/.bashrc` is where you'd edit this.  Here's what I added, at the bottom:

```
export HISTSIZE=100000 # big big history
export HISTFILESIZE=100000 # big big history
```

Anything you put into `~/.bashrc` will be run every time you open a terminal.  It's a handy place to customize your environment.  Note the `~`.  In C9 you start in /workspace or etc and `.bashrc` is in the root of your user's home directory, aka `~`.
