---
author: elliott
category: notes
title: "Milestones; Dictionaries Review"
layout: post
mode: Remote
published: true
---

# Q&A

- First meetup reflection: exemplary!
- What's `pip`?

# First Steps

Would anyone volunteer to show what they have so for for their Drawing or Blackjack app?  The earlier stage, the better.  My goal is to help people get an idea of how to get started.

# Milestones

Think of these as 'tests.'  You may also want to make a To-do list, but milestones are things your program can do (capabilities) or things a user can do with it (abilities).  You may consider grouping to-dos by Milestones if you want.  In this case, milestones may turn into headings, with todos under them as checkboxes.

Blackjack people: As I mentioned, starting with a Basic project, then duplicating it and adding in as many Advanced items as you can is a great way to go.  If you want, look up the rules to Blackjack and implement things that go beyond Prof. Gotz's assignment to make the game more fun.

Remember **unicode** characters if you implement suits: ♠
{% comment %}
# Dicts Solutions


Ex 1

<iframe src="https://trinket.io/embed/python3/6836f5a01e" width="100%" height="600" frameborder="0" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Ex 2-5

<iframe src="https://trinket.io/embed/python3/7ab711043e" width="100%" height="600" frameborder="0" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>


# Dictionaries Part Deux

<iframe src="https://trinket.io/embed/python3/7a57cec4a5" width="100%" height="600" frameborder="0" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Things to remember:

- You're looping through each row.  If a state exists, do one set of things.  If not, do another set of things.  That's the pattern for both 1 and 3.
- `('\t').join(["some", "LIST", "of", "things"])` is an idiom!  Live it, love it, use it.  You can also join around spaces, commas, whatever you need.
- Got a header in your list of lists? **Slice it off**
- Got bad data?  Manually clean it.  Or automatically clean it.  Or try/except.
{% endcomment %}

# Next time

App project due!