---
layout: post
author: elliott
title: "Problem Solving Attitudes & Strategies"
categories:
  - notes
published: true
mode: in-person
---

# Survey responses

Highlights:

# Intros

Let's get to know each other!

# Final Discussion

It's posted. We'll talk more about it later, but take a look to see where we're headed.  Short version: you'll use everything we're learning to write an awesome program!


# Q&A

* Red Xs on your pull requests: see if you can figure out why.  Check Github Basics in the [How-to]({{ site.baseurl }}/how-to.html) for post formatting reminders.  Then, to update your post, watch the video at the bottom.
*

<!--
Some comments on reflections and discussing and thinking about code more generally.

* `raw_input` vs `input`: my bad!  But your text has the information you need to solve the confusion.  Python 2 vs 3 & Trinket...
* Do the readings *before* the exercises.  THanks to the reflections that helped me diagnose the confusion.  The Assignments page order is now updated.
* Show me what you didn't understand: If something's not clicking for you, it's OK to submit code that's broken or isn't working.  Take the time to explain what's not working, why, what you tried, etc.  I can then revise your code to work in my feedback, which should make it click.  Try to get things to work, of course, and many times trying to explain what's wrong will help you figure things out.  But if input isn't making sense to you, for instance, *still include it in your submission*.
* Proportional feedback: Please spend lots of time on your comments and reflections.  This isn't to create work for you: it's because it's a huge part of the learning experience!  Reading, Writing, Running, and Discussing code are the pillars of your learning and the key skills I want for you.  In the beginning stages of class, I'm going to give everyone lots of feedback.  As time goes on, the level of time I spend on feedback to you will become more and more proportional to the effort you put into your reflections.
* Length isn't what's important in a reflection: metacognition is!  What have you learned about yourself and your understand?  Your reflections and my feedback should be a dialog about that.
* Class and group discussions are another outlet for your metacognition.  Listen to your classmates, ask them questions, and reflect on your own journey.  As the semester goes on, you'll get better and better at talking about code and reflecting on your efforts.
* Code is inherently social.  But building your ability to interact productively with others about it, in writing and in person, you're building an excellent foundation for your future efforts. This is crucial to lift off!

-->


OK, let's talk about some code.

# Assignments Review

## Turtle Basics

What I Wanted to see:

- use lots of Turtle's capabilities
- Using someone else's code? Cite & Modify
- have a precise outcome
- relevant comments
- Reflection

<!--
Improvements:

- Explore!
- Put in the time
- Don't copy code.  Cite & modify

Examples...
-->
## Chapter 2 Exercises

Quick Review & Q&A

## Reflections

What I was looking for:


Standouts:

# Problem Solving Attitudes

* Self-awareness
* Calm
* Determination

Always know how you feel.  This is critical.  If you know you're frustrated, that could
be a key indicator that it's time to go take a shower (or get a cup of tea, or do some yoga or...).

Keep in mind that you *will* understand the problem.  Work backwards from that certainty.

Don't let uncertainty overwhelm you or lessen your determination.  Focus on the certainty you do have.

Talk it out.

If you're **crushing it** :muscle:, think about other ways the problem could be solved.  If you're not breaking a sweat - if you're not initially confused about something - you're not getting stronger.

# Problem Solving Strategies

**Go in the Right Direction**

* Make sure you know what problem you're trying to solve.  Articulate it clearly.  This is harder than it sounds.
* Make sure you know what you think you know.  Test what you think you know to confirm it. Build from there.
* Keep your **goals** in mind. Sometimes you'll discover you're off on a tangent. Re-focus.

**Work smart**
* Start early.
* Make lists of what you need to accomplish.  I use Google Keep.  Separate the planning from the doing to keep your mind clear.
* Break the problem down into solvable pieces. At least one solveable piece will keep you moving forward.  Once you've solved a piece, save/commit your work and take a breather.
* **Time box.**  Work no more than 15-25 minutes at a time on a single problem.
* Stumped? **Stop** and come back later. In the shower is where many a tough programming problem
has been solved.


**Use Your Resources**
* **Who** would know the answer? Find them, in person or via Google.
* Re-read the relevant parts in our textbook or the other resources I linked to in our syllabus.
* Know what to google for.  Much of the help on the internet (e.g. StackOverflow) is too specific for the
basics. Use a trusted reference when you can, be that a person or a book.

___

**Problem Solving Tactics For Python**

* `print` what you think things should be and see if they are
* see if you can predict what kind of `Error`s you'll generate
* `try` and `except` errors you don't care about for now
* Comment out (`Ctrl-/` on Trinket) as much code as you can to isolate the problem


# On Reflections

[Here's an outstanding reflection](http://silshack.github.io/spring2016/JasminePlottTurtleExercises.html). Jasmine
really gave me a sense of her journey.  But more importantly, she went on that journey.  As a graduate level class,
I'm puting the onus on you to drive your own learning.

# Editing a post from an open PR (I'll be Tommy)

* Caroline: make another PR right quick

Let's walk through adding or fixing something to an open PR.  I've left a comment on everyone's PR letting you know what's missing.

* if your date format was wrong, fix that
* If you didn't put your post in `_posts/ghname/...`, do that
* If I said "Great job" or something similar, make any edit you want to the body of your text.

{% include ghissues %}

This is also in the [how tos]({{ site.baseurl }}/how-to.html).

{% include ghfaq %}

These are also in the [how tos]({{ site.baseurl }}/how-to.html).

## In Class: Make Sure You Can Access Protected Panopto Content

This brief in-class assignment is also in our [how tos]({{ site.baseurl }}/how-to.html) if you ever run into a situation where these videos aren't displaying for you.

We're doing it this week because next week is remote!

## In Class: Custom Turtles

See the assignments page.

# Fix Issues (~10 minutes)
A little in-class time to fix any outstanding issues.
