---
author: elliott
layout: post
category: notes
title: "Lists and Functions Review"
mode: In Person
published: True
---


# Announcements
* Class seating chart reminder & attendance.
* Misha [office hours](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/u/0/selfsched?sstoken=UUVMc1JxMUhXU19lfGRlZmF1bHR8NzVkZjI1MWY1MDA4ZTdjNjE2MDcxM2Y3M2QzYjg2OTQ)



Grades and assessment
* Let's talk a little bit about the evidence for effective CS education
* I want you doing the work that only you can do, like reflecting, adapting, asking questions, setting learning strategies
* Too often, programming is taught like a logical proof. That's not how we learn languages, or new ways of thinking. We need repetition, chances to try things out, opportunities to connect to what you already know.
* We're never going to leave a topic behind as if you understand it completely. So, instead of focusing on content, I'm focusing on the process of putting it all together. That happens over and over again and will pay off once we start doing projects.
* Understanding happens at different times for different people. It's counter-productive if assessment is too rigid too early, because it short-circuits risk taking, confidence, and creativity. I've seen this over and over again: students who are still struggling midway through the semester but focus on process get an amazing 'click': and often become my best students.
* This may feel unfamiliar to you, because I'm not giving you a number that correlates to getting a problem 'right' right now. But it is essential to your success, and I hope to earn your trust on that.
* Grades are released. Please let Misha know if you believe there's been an error in Runestone tracking your efforts. But, most importantly, **perfect your process**.

Reflections. I was looking for:
* Example of a lightbulb
* Discussion of confusion
* Something still fuzzy for you, and what you'll do about that
* Example of a problem solving strategy working for you
* 2 code blocks, woven into the discussion
* Overall: thought, effort, and evidence of metacognition
*
Smaller things
* Properly formatted code blocks

I will respond to your first two reflections with qualitative feedback for you.

Anyone care to share things that the reflection helped you realize about your learning?


# Lists!

Powerful, general purpose sequences.

Some notes:
* `count()` method. 7.16.7
* Mutability: changing in place. This is as opposed to strings, which are immutable. String methods **return** a modified strings. List methods instead modify the list in place by changing the data it points to.
* split, join: they are both **string** methods. One returns a list, one accepts a list.
* `is` vs `==` (finally!)

```python
a = [1, 2, 3]
b = [1, 2, 3]
print(a is b)
# False: these are two distinct lists

print(a[0] is b[0])
# True: there is only one `1` in Python
```

An introduction to [CodeLens](https://runestone.academy/runestone/books/published/py4e-int/lists/aliasing.html) visualizations. Many of you mentioned using these in the textbook, and they're increasingly part of the text.

# In-Class Exercises

Pomodoros til done

# Wrap up

Dictionaries and Tuples.

Dictionaries are really, really cool!

{% comment %}

# Q&A

Use Markdown in your posts!
* [Mastering Markdown](https://guides.github.com/features/mastering-markdown/) (as opposed to markup- get it?).
* Here's another [Markdown cheatsheet](http://assemble.io/docs/Cheatsheet-Markdown.html)

Study Session Thursdays
* 2pm: [https://utexas.zoom.us/j/92804583910](https://utexas.zoom.us/j/92804583910)

# Escape Velocity

My goal for all of you is to get you into orbit, able to keep learning on your own and
ready for a wide range of new technologies.  Let's recalibrate what success means.

# Part I

Some code examples to start us off
* While True, continue and break

<iframe src="https://trinket.io/embed/python/cb75ea4a3f" width="100%" height="356" frameborder="0" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

* what `try`/`except` does to your program

<iframe src="https://trinket.io/embed/python/4b205b50d7" width="100%" height="300" frameborder="0" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

* use **list and string operations, methods, and functions** to do the hard work for you. This is why we have data types!

<iframe src="https://trinket.io/embed/python3/9270d866e0" width="100%" height="356" frameborder="0" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Let's review the *boatload* of homework you did.  Now.

# Part II

We're doing more chapter 8 exercises, but more importantly we're learning
a technique called **pair programming**.  This is both a real technique used
by professional programmers and a learning strategy that's been shown to
improve outcomes.  Double win!

First, a [warmup]({{ site.baseurl }}/exercise/gerund-challenge.html). I'll navigate.

# Part III

Next, more exercises.  Complete these in a pair programming style, then have both partners submit the same code. [Let's go!]({{ site.baseurl }}/exercise/ch8-more.html)



# Next Time (see materials page for descriptions)

**For extra credit**, submit your work as a coauthored post.

**Clickyhack turtle.**

Again, another open-ended exercise for your to make something unique.  You've got **Lots** more tools now, but you may not know how to put them to use.  Combine your ideas with the things we've learned to make a program that uses all of the language features we've covered so far, starting from a helpful template I made for you.

**Reflection on the Class So Far**

Far and away, the students who reflect the best, perform the best.  This is your opportunity to either continue your reflection excellence or bring it up to speed.  Use terms from class like problem solving strategies, attitudes, challenges, and lightbulbs to describe your journey so far.  Help me (and yourself!) understand your path.
{% endcomment %}