---
layout: post
author: elliott
title: "Problem Solving Attitudes & Strategies"
categories:
  - notes
published: false
mode: In person
---

Today: we will **repeat** a lot of things. That's both because we have some new classmates and because during repetition you'll see more **layers** start to unfold for you.

Important update: my **office hours** are posted on [the syllabus]({{ site.baseurl}}/syllabus.html). Schedule 15 minutes on Zoom with me, usually on Fridays 12-2. I'll add more times as needed or if I have a conflict.

We're also going to start using some remote tools this week in preparation for **remote class next week*.

Some initial concepts to repeat:

* Think about where you fall on the "tell me what to do" and "tell me how it works" spectrum. You'll need both kinds of learning in this class. Start to notice when each type is helpful to you.
* In addition to learning style, pay attention to things that confuse or block you, and "light bulbs" that turn on for you. These are key learning moments and will help you take charge of your path.
* Out first problem solving skill was to **Stop**. As in, take breaks. Several of you did so, and reported being able to make much better progress when you did. You're not alone. This is a well-known technique in coding (and writing, painting, all sorts of creative endeavors...)

# Glossary Extravaganza

We ain't afraid of no words.  What words have you encountered in or out of class that you don't know the precise meaning to?  We'll write them up on the board and I'll work explanations into the class.

# Survey responses & code reflections

{% comment %}
Highlights from the welcome survey:
* "I tried to learn python from my brother and then through CodeAcademy. I followed along but lost interest and forgot what I learned quickly."
* Goal: "A decent understanding of python and python's application in the real world and where to go next to learn more."
* "I tend to be a perfectionist, so learning that getting things wrong as part of the learning process makes me a bit anxious, but I really hope to become more comfortable with that as the semester goes on. "
* "From the little experience that I have, I have navigated coding simply by doing and not really understanding what I am coding."
* "...quite a lil bit of imposter syndrome..."
* "I like the feeling of success when I've been working on something for a long time and finally get it to work. That's such an exciting feeling :) "
* "I would really really like some projects for my portfolio/resume"
* "I’m fairly worried that I won’t be able to keep up since I’m starting from scratch and this is not my academic strong suit."
* "I struggle with learning on my own, so I hope that the structure and community in this course will help alleviate those difficulties."
* "My understanding is that you can get hung up on parts of code and I hope I don’t spend the majority of my time backtracking and trying to figure out where I went wrong."
* "I am excited about learning a tangible new skill."
* "I hope to gain technical base where I build from and become more proficient in years to come."
* " Using open source lectures to learn code does not work for me because I do not have the instructor to go to to ask questions or help how he/she will solve a coding error."

Highlights from the first exercise reflections:

* "I was absolutely overwhelmed in class (and only coded a bunch of lame pre-figured shapes/colors), but once I relaxed and took the time to work through a slightly more complicated project later on, I learned a lot more and was happier with the result. The moral of this story is that I probably won’t get stuff right off the bat and will probably have to mess around with things alone/ in silence later on for it to click. It's going to take a while. That’s ok with me!"
* "I had a lot of trouble with the move forward and backward and using the x and y coordinates was much easier on my brain."
* "It seems simple but turns out to be difficult."
* "Although my piece is fairly simple, I'm happy with how it turned out and I feel confident I could make other shapes and pictures much more easily now."
{% endcomment %}


# Intros

Let's keep getting to know each other (and those who just joined us)!

# Final Project Discussion

It's posted. We'll talk more about it later, but take a look to see where we're headed.  Short version: you'll use everything we're learning to write an awesome program!


# Q&A

* Length isn't what's important in a reflection: metacognition is!  What have you learned about yourself and your understand?  Your reflections, our discussions in class, and my feedback to you should be a dialog about that.
* Great example to discuss: `fill(True)` and `fill(False)`. This is a good example of how the way a designer thought about a problem not matching with the way you're thinking about it. It's pretty common to have these kinds of mismatches. In some sense, programming involves melding the way you're thinking about a problem with the way someone else did.
* O'Reilly vs Udemy vs ??
* Anything else?


OK, let's talk about some code.

# Assignments Review

Screenshare Zoom Room if needed:
https://utexas.zoom.us/j/94112943955

## Turtle Basics

Check out the [before picture]({{ site.baseurl }}/before-picture.html). You'll look back fondly on this first assignment from great heights of Pythonic fluency.

What I Wanted to see:

- Use lots of Turtle's capabilities
- Have a precise and unique outcome
- Inclue relevant comments
- A thoughtful reflection

## Chapter 2 Exercises

Quick Review & Q&A

## Reflections

I didn't see everyone make one of these, so we'll review how to do posts below.

# Problem Solving Attitudes

* Self-awareness
* Calm
* Determination

Always know how you feel.  This is critical.  If you know you're frustrated, that could
be a key indicator that it's time to go take a shower (or get a cup of tea, or do some yoga or...).

Keep in mind that you *will* understand the problem.  Work backwards from that certainty.

Don't let uncertainty overwhelm you or lessen your determination.  Focus on the certainty you do have.

Talk it out.

If you're **crushing it** :muscle:, think about other ways the problem could be solved.  If you're not breaking a sweat - if you're not initially confused about something - you're not getting stronger.

# Problem Solving Strategies

**Go in the Right Direction**

* Make sure you know what problem you're trying to solve.  Articulate it clearly.  This is harder than it sounds.
* Make sure you know what you think you know.  Test what you think you know to confirm it. Build from there.
* Keep your **goals** in mind. Sometimes you'll discover you're off on a tangent. Re-focus.

**Work smart**
* Start early.
* Make lists of what you need to accomplish.  I use Google Keep.  Separate the planning from the doing to keep your mind clear.
* Break the problem down into solvable pieces. At least one solveable piece will keep you moving forward.  Once you've solved a piece, save/commit your work and take a breather.
* **Time box.**  Work no more than 15-25 minutes at a time on a single problem.
* Stumped? **Stop** and come back later. In the shower is where many a tough programming problem
has been solved.


**Use Your Resources**
* **Who** would know the answer? Find them, in person or via Google.
* Re-read the relevant parts in our textbook or the other resources I linked to in our syllabus.
* Know what to google for.  Much of the help on the internet (e.g. StackOverflow) is too specific for the
basics. Use a trusted reference when you can, be that a person or a book.

___

**Problem Solving Tactics For Python**

* `print` what you think things should be and see if they are
* see if you can predict what kind of `Error`s you'll generate
* `try` and `except` errors you don't care about for now
* Comment out (`Ctrl-/` on Trinket) as much code as you can to isolate the problem


# On Reflections

[Here's an outstanding reflection](http://silshack.github.io/spring2016/JasminePlottTurtleExercises.html) from a prior class. Jasmine
really gave me a sense of her journey.  But more importantly, she went on that journey.  As a graduate level class,
I'm puting the onus on you to drive your own learning.




# Editing a post from an open PR (I'll be Tommy)

Let's walk through adding or fixing something to an open PR.  I've left a comment on everyone's PR letting you know what's missing.

* if your date format was wrong, fix that
* If you didn't put your post in `_posts/ghname/...`, do that
* If I said "Great job" or something similar, make any edit you want to the body of your text.

{% include ghissues %}

This is also in the [how tos]({{ site.baseurl }}/how-to.html).

{% include ghfaq %}

These are also in the [how tos]({{ site.baseurl }}/how-to.html).

# In Class: Make Sure You Can Access Protected Panopto Content

This brief in-class assignment is also in our [how tos]({{ site.baseurl }}/how-to.html) if you ever run into a situation where these videos aren't displaying for you.

We're doing it this week because next week is remote!

# In Class: Custom Turtles

See the assignments page.

# In Class: Embed a Trinket in a Post

See the Assignments page.

Screenshare Zoom Room:
https://utexas.zoom.us/j/94112943955

