---
layout: post
author: elliott
title: "Beginning Final Projects; Basic User Interfaces"
category: notes
mode: In Person
published: true
---



# Announcements
* We're almost done with the non-final portions of the class, except for the meetup writeup. Misha and I are working to get you grades so that you know where you stand going into the final. Almost everyone is doing well, and no one is failing. Many of you have built up a nice mathematical cushion for your final.
* Your final is a series of assignments, culminating in a program that you'll turn in and present. The program and your writing about it are the largest component of this grade, but no one piece is high-stakes. This means 1) catastrophic failure from any one assignment is mathematically impossible and 2) like the rest of this class, completing the intermediate assignments thoroughly is critical to doing well.
* As I've discussed, this approach to assessment is key to the design of this course: I am guiding you through and assessing you on the _process_ of learning. Why? Because everyone's process is slightly different, and because process is what will enable you to acheive lift-off: the ability to continue to learn and grow as a programmer after this class is over.
* Your github-based work is going to be **collected** all at once.
* Custom modules content is published on next week's notes. Read ahead if you like, but we'll cover it next week.

# Final Project Resources

For the final project, **all programs should be in Trinket**. This is to standardize the runtimes. Some notes:
* We've been using the free Python trinket so far. You might want a Trinket Code+ account, especially if you're doing Data Analysis, since the server-side Python3 trinket has more features and more of the stdlib you'll probably want to use. **The code `INF380P` (case sensitive) will give you a 50% discount off any plan for 2 years.** Data analysts can still use [the python 3 trinket](https://trinket.io/python3) and use the Share link to get a link to your code, but the ability to save these trinkets to your account is pretty convenient. Turtlers who want to use server-side Python will want to select the **Pygame** trinket, which also requires a Code+ account. Any server-side trinket should run on your local computer exactly as it does on Trinket, and all trinkets let you download the code for use elsewhere. The free Trinkets mostly work like this as well, but sometimes need touch-ups here and there to run as expected locally.
* Turtlers will have some upcoming recommended readings from a [video series I did for O'Reilly](https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/python-game-development/9781771374071/). There's a free trial that can give you access to this at that link, and it's available from a variety of other platforms as well. It's late enough in the semester that a 1 month trial probably gets you what you need.

# Basic User Interfaces

In other iterations of this class, the path towards the final project has been pretty open-ended. I've redesigned this course this year around our interactive textbook, which I believe has been a success, but you have less experience writing programs from scratch so far. So I'm going to provide some structure and themes to what I want you to work on each week until the final is done.

**Feel free** to go beyond my suggestions, and see them as only part of what you'll need to do. But this will, I believe, help everyone transition to more open-ended work more successfully.

So, the first "theme" is user interface, and scope. The details of this are different between the two kinds of projects. But

## Analysts

Check this example code for the kind of text-based interface I'm looking for:

<iframe src="https://trinket.io/embed/python3/b5c5eced6a" width="100%" height="600" frameborder="0" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

You can use functions to respond to the options, or you could store the choice in a variable that's
passed to one function that changes its behavior based on logic you write.

You'll need to get your dataset inside the function, either as a parameter or as a global.

## Turtlers

Check out this example code that defines an interface in turtle:

<iframe src="https://trinket.io/embed/python/1eb70f077e" width="100%" height="600" frameborder="0" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

(press run and then click or press up or down)


# State

We've talked a little bit about state, but now that we have users interacting with our programs, it's important to return to this.

State refers to things that your program knows that change over time. So far, without users, it's been important to understand so that we can avoid bugs. And many of you have found that `print`ing variables is a helpful way to inspect state.

Now, in addition to yourself, you have the user to think about. Your program is going to have state, some of which you need to understand but can stay hidden to the user, and some of which needs to be displayed to the user.

The simplest way to store state is as a string or number in a variable. But, as your program grows, you'll need to keep track of more things. You might then want to use a more complex data structure, like a dict, to store state. This is part of **refactoring**, or rewiring your program to be easier to rewrite, easier to understand, and/or more efficient.

## Dict Review

Make a dict

```
mydict = { }
mydict = dict()
mydict = { "key" : "value" }
```

Get a value

```
mydict["key"]
# returns "value"
```

A dict of dicts has inner dicts as the values within an outer dict.

```
# set "key" value equal to empty dict from the start
mydict = { "key" : {} }

# OR if dict already exists set "key" equal to empty dict this way:
mydict["key"] = {}

# put a value in the inner dict
mydict["key"]["inner key"] = "inner value"
```

A dict of dicts might be a great data structure if you have a number of things that you want to collect specific pieces of data about.

* **data analysis**: Let's say you have a list of all the locations of various chain restaurants. You could create a dict with each chain as a key, and each key would point to a dict of information about that restaurant chain. You would want to end up with a dict something like this:

```
restaurants = {
    "Torchy's" : {
        "number_of_locations" : X,
        "states" : ["a list of states goes here"],
        ....
    }
    "Cookout" : {
        "number_of_locations" : Y,
        ....
    }
}
```

You could then access the statistics you've gathered from any chain in the dataset by calling
```
restaurants["Torchy's]["number_of_locations"]
```
Since the inner dicts are all the same, the pattern for getting the information is the same, letting you replace the name of the restaurant with a variable, or perhaps something the user entered in the text.

* Turtle: you might use a dictionary to keep track of things like player lives left, the 'mode' the game is in, the number and location of hidden 'treasures' on the screen, and so on.


# Project discussions

We're going to try a *socially distanced* group discussion of projects.

## Analysts: Find a suitable data source

* Your data source should be plaintext. CSV, TSV, etc. are common formats. But, if you want, you could use raw emails like we did in class. Don't use a Word document or other kinds of files Python can't easily read.
* Your data source should be substantial but not huge. It should be a minimum of hundreds of lines, but no more than a few thousand. If your files get too big Trinket will take a very long time to load.
* Your data should have interesting questions you can ask about it. "Interesting" is of course subjective here, but a list of a hundred names isn't a complex enough data file.

## Turtlers: Pick a broad category

I would suggest picking from these categories:

* Animation. You'll still need to implement a user interface, but your program is primarily oriented around drawing things on the screen, and you can spend time on what those animations are. The "win" screen and other game-like components will be less natural-feeling here, but you still need them.
* Top-down game. Your user controls a turtle, top down, and encounters other objects.
* Side-scrolling game. Your user moves left to right. This is more challenging.
* Implementation of an existing game. Checkers, hangman, etc. This is more challenging, but **make sure you do original work if you choose this option**. I am aware of common implementations of games in Turtle. You may use these as inspiration but it will be obvious to me if you do something dishonest. Please don't put either of us through that.

It is OK to switch ideas at this stage: your project plans are raw material. And, your idea will evolve a little. But, over the coming week, you need to pick turtle or data and stick with it.

# Next Week

You'll revise your project idea _in light of an interface sketch_. Let these two influence each other: try to shape an interface around your idea, and don't be afraid to modify your idea based on what you experience getting started on the interface.