---
author: elliott
category: notes
title: "Synthesis: Writing About Code"
layout: post
mode: Remote
published: true
---

# Announcements

* Meetups check-in: Write your reflections as you go and you'll soon know how to submit them.
* Copy and paste is your brain's enemy! (Unless you're moving your code around)
* Get ready for some controlled chaos today.

# Q&A

* Anything come up during our light week?

# Github

You'll make two github posts today and one next week. A good portion of your work from here on out will involve Trinket and Github.

## Make an account

Sign up for Github. Your user name and display name can be pseudonymous if you'd like to preserve your anonymity. Many students choose to begin to build a public Github profile in this class, or already have an account they prefer to use.

Once you have your Github user name, submit it as instructed by Misha.

Github is a set of services and web wrappers around the open source version control system **git**. If you go on to become a software developer, you'll probably use git extensively. In this class, my goal if for you to become familiar with interacting with others on Github, rather than to use version control. To do that, you'll be submitting posts that will show up on our class website.

## Jekyll

Jekyll is the name of the website builder I use for the class website. Let's learn a little bit about that.

## Your first post

Follow the "Github Basics" in-class exercise together. I'll be TommyTester


# Embedding Trinkets into our Class Site

Another in-class exercise. You'll need the Trinket you made so you can embed it.

## Writing about code

With this new tool, you now have the ability to make posts with:

* a working program your reader can run and modify
* formatted code blocks and inline code so your reader can follow along
* deeply integrated reflections

Let's check out Tommy Tester's example post.

# Next week & beyond

You'll read about the `turtle` module, and learn about using `Turtle` objects. Your homework is to create two turtle trinkets and a reflection (off of Github). We'll review how to make posts together during class, and you'll add information about yourself to the class website as well.

There's a reading on Markdown, which will help you format your posts. Treat it as a reference.

Looking ahead, turtle, classes, and objects are the last new content area I'll introduce. There's a lot more good content in our textbook I recommend you look at after the semester is over if you have an interest in those areas.

We've got some substantial diversity readings coming up that will set up what I hope will be a really great in-class discussion.

From there, we'll start focusing on final projects. The end is in sight! We're going to make it.




{% comment %}
# Announcements

- App project due next week
- Final project idea due the week after
- We'll spend a good part of today working on projects

# Q&A

- What questions do you have?


# Part 1: Dictionaries


The [official Python documention on dictionaries](https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#typesmapping) is helpful - if you konw how to use it. Let's learn how to use it.

# Dictionaries review

<iframe src="https://trinket.io/embed/python3/7a57cec4a5" width="100%" height="600" frameborder="0" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>


# Part 2: App Drafts & Milestones

Would anyone volunteer to show what they have so for for their Drawing or Blackjack app?  The earlier stage, the better.  My goal is to help people get an idea of how to get started.

# Milestones

Think of these as 'tests.'  You may also want to make a To-do list, but milestones are things your program can do (capabilities) or things a user can do with it (abilities).  You may consider grouping to-dos by Milestones if you want.  In this case, milestones may turn into headings, with todos under them as checkboxes.

Blackjack people: As I mentioned, starting with a Basic project, then duplicating it and adding in as many Advanced items as you can is a great way to go.  If you want, look up the rules to Blackjack and implement things that go beyond Prof. Gotz's assignment to make the game more fun.

Remember **unicode** characters if you implement suits: ♠


# Part 3: In-class work time

Use it wisely!

# Next time

App project due!
{% endcomment %}