---
layout: post
author: elliott
categories:
  - exercise
title: Chapter 7 Strings Exercises
inclass: true
link: https://elliott.trinket.io/inf-380p-fall-2020#/strings-exercises/backwards-strings
---

Submit a well-formatted pull request to our class blog with embedded Trinket programs for the below three
exercises from Chapter 5 (use these instead of the ones in the book - I added a few explanations).
Complete these on your own, using only the materials in this Chapter. Do not
look at other students' submissions until after you've completed your work.

**After your programs are done**, check other students' work and other resources online if you had questions.
Include a reflection about what you think you've learned and any concepts that are still fuzzy to you.
Did you encounter frustrating situations? Did you feel a lightbulb turn on?

___




**Exercise 1:** Write a while loop that starts at the last character in the string and works its way backwards to the first character in the string, printing each letter on a separate line, except backwards.


**Exercise 3:**

The following program counts the number of times the letter a appears in a string:

```python
word = 'banana'
count = 0
for letter in word:
    if letter == 'a':
        count = count + 1
print(count)
```

This program demonstrates another pattern of computation called a counter. The variable `count` is initialized to 0 and then incremented each time an a is found. When the loop exits, count contains the result: the total number of a's.


Encapsulate this code in a function named `counter`, and generalize it so that it accepts the string and the letter as arguments.


**Exercise 4:**

There is a string method called count that is similar to the function in the previous exercise. Read the documentation of this method at https://docs.python.org/3.5/library/stdtypes.html#string-methods and write an invocation that counts the number of times the letter a occurs in "banana".

**Exercise 5:**

Take the following Python code that stores a string:`

    str = 'X-DSPAM-Confidence: 0.8475'

Use `find` and string slicing to extract the portion of the string after the colon character and then use the float function to convert the extracted string into a floating point number.