---
layout: post
author: elliott
categories:
  - exercise
title: Chapter 4 Conditionals Exercises
link: https://elliott.trinket.io/inf-380p-fall-2020#/conditionals-exercises/overtime-calculator
inclass: true
---

Submit a well-formatted pull request to our class blog with embedded Trinket programs for the below three
exercises from Chapter 3 (use these instead of the ones in the book - I added a few explanations).
Complete these on your own, using only the materials in this Chapter. Do not
look at other students' submissions until after you've completed your work.

**After your programs are done**, check other students' work and other resources online if you had questions.
Include a reflection about what you think you've learned and any concepts that are still fuzzy to you.
Did you encounter frustrating situations? Did you feel a lightbulb turn on?

___

Exercise 1: Rewrite your pay computation to give the employee 1.5 times
the hourly rate for hours worked above 40 hours.

~~~~
Enter Hours: 45
Enter Rate: 10
Pay: 475.0
~~~~

Exercise 2: Rewrite your pay program using `try` and
`except` so that your program handles non-numeric input
gracefully by printing a message and exiting the program. The following
shows two executions of the program:

~~~~
Enter Hours: 20
Enter Rate: nine
Error, please enter numeric input
~~~~

~~~~
Enter Hours: forty
Error, please enter numeric input
~~~~

Exercise 3: Write a program to prompt for a score between 0.0 and 1.0.
If the score is out of range, print an error message. If the score is
between 0.0 and 1.0, print a grade using the following table:

~~~~
Score   Grade
>= 0.9     A
>= 0.8     B
>= 0.7     C
>= 0.6     D
< 0.6    F
~~~~

~~~~
Enter score: 0.95
A
~~~~

~~~~
Enter score: perfect
Bad score
~~~~

~~~~
Enter score: 10.0
Bad score
~~~~

~~~~
Enter score: 0.75
C
~~~~

~~~~
Enter score: 0.5
F
~~~~

Run the program repeatedly as shown above to test the various different
values for input.

