---
layout: post
author: elliott
categories:
  - exercise
title: Chapter 2 Variables Exercises
inclass: true
---

Submit a well-formatted pull request to our class blog with embedded Trinket programs for the below three
exercises from Chapter 2 (use these instead of the ones in the book - I added a few explanations).
Complete these on your own, using only the materials in Chapter 2. Do not
look at other students' submissions until after you've completed your work.

**After your programs are done**, check other students' work and other resources online if you had questions.
Include a reflection about what you think you've learned and any concepts that are still fuzzy to you.
Did you encounter frustrating situations? Did you feel a lightbulb turn on?

___

Exercise 2: Write a program that uses input to prompt a user for their name and then welcomes them.

Here's a sample run of the program.  The user types 'Chuck' and presses enter.

```
Enter your name: Chuck
Hello Chuck
```

Exercise 3: Write a program to prompt the user for hours and rate per hour to compute gross pay.

Here's a sample run of the program.  The user `types 35 Enter`, then `2.75 Enter`.

```
Enter Hours: 35
Enter Rate: 2.75
Pay: 96.25
```

We won't worry about making sure our pay has exactly two digits after the decimal place for now. If you want, you can play with the built-in Python round function to properly round the resulting pay to two decimal places.


Exercise 5: Write a program which prompts the user for a Celsius temperature, convert the temperature to
Fahrenheit, and print out the converted temperature.

You can compare your temperature converter program's output with Google.