---
author: elliott
layout: post
category: exercise
title: "Project Update: Interface Draft"
published: true
canvas: false
---


**This project update should include a draft or sketch of a basic user interface for your program.** In other words your user should be able to click run and interact with your program via text input (data analysis projects) or clicking/keypresses (Turtle projects). Your program does not have to do anything useful in response to these inputs: rather, **stub** out some functionality. For instance, a data analysis program might present a list of data analysis options, and print text when the user inputs the option number, then return to the list of options.

If you made multiple drafts, or multiple versions of drafts, include them! Sketching things out is important, especially early on.

Submit a pull request with a short narrative update on your progress since last class,
along with your modified list of milestones (checked/unchecked as appropriate), **and a snapshot of your code** in
Trinket. Duplicate your project and embed the duplicate **and then remember to stop working on the duplicate**.  If using github,
like to an actual commit.  Address how your actual work compared with your plan from the previous update.

**Include both the old plan and your new modifications (if any)**

Include a reflection, where you may want to consider:

* Are there any roadblocks ahead?  Is there anything your group can do to help out?
* Are your milestones ambitious enough?  Make sure to include some stretch goals.
* Are your milestones too ambitious?  Make sure to break down the unglamorous parts of coding
into chunks that reflect the actual work to be done.
* Are you able to keep to your plan?  Looking back at what you've actually done, is the difference
accountable to bad planning (i.e. not anticipating what needed to be done), bad execution (not doing it), or
something else?

Explicitly state what you're working on next and what you intend to accomplish before next class.

# Pairs/Groups:

{% include groups %}